1.	Since it hasn’t rained for months, there is a water _____ in many parts of the country.(A) resource	(B) deposit	(C) shortage	(D) formula
2.	The problem with Larry is that he doesn’t know his limitations; he just _____ he can do everything.(A) convinces	(B) disguises	(C) assumes	(D) evaluates
3.	Agnes seems to have a _____ personality. Almost everyone is immediately attracted to her when they first see her.(A) clumsy	(B) durable	(C) furious	(D) magnetic
4.	Jason always _____ in finishing a task no matter how difficult it may be. He hates to quit halfway in anything he does.(A) persists	(B) motivates	(C) fascinates	(D) sacrifices
5.	Poor _____ has caused millions of deaths in developing countries where there is only a limited amount of food.(A) reputation	(B) nutrition	(C) construction	(D) stimulation
6.	The helicopters _____ over the sea, looking for the divers who had been missing for more than 30 hours.(A) tackled	(B) rustled	(C) strolled	(D) hovered
7.	One of the tourist attractions in Japan is its hot spring _____, where guests can enjoy relaxing baths and beautiful views.(A) resorts	(B) hermits	(C) galleries	(D) faculties
8.	When a young child goes out and commits a crime, it is usually the parents who should be held _____ for the child’s conduct.(A) eligible	(B) dispensable	(C) credible	(D) accountable
9.	Since you have not decided on the topic of your composition, it’s still ______ to talk about how to write your conclusion. (A) preventive	(B) premature	(C) productive	(D) progressive
10.	Human rights are fundamental rights to which a person is ________ entitled, that is, rights that she or he is born with.(A) inherently	(B) imperatively	(C) authentically 	(D) alternatively

The Nobel Peace Center is located in an old train station building close to the Oslo City Hall and overlooking the harbor. It was officially opened on June 11, 2005 as part of the celebrations to mark Norway’s centenary as an independent country. It is a center where you can experience and learn about the various Nobel Peace Prize Laureates and their activities as well as the remarkable history of Alfred Nobel, the founder of the Nobel Prize. In addition, it serves as a meeting place where exhibits, discussions, and reflections related to war, peace, and conflict resolution are in focus. The Center combines exhibits and films with digital communication and interactive installations and has already received attention for its use of state-of-the-art technology. Visitors are welcome to experience the Center on their own or join a guided tour. Since its opening, the Nobel Peace Center has been educating, inspiring and entertaining its visitors through exhibitions, activities, lectures, and cultural events. The Center is financed by private and public institutions.
11.	(A) help	(B) solve	(C) take	(D) mark
12.	(A) so much as	(B) as well as	(C) in spite of	(D) on behalf of
13.	(A) related	(B) limited	(C) addicted	(D) contributed
14.	(A) in this regard	(B) one on one	(C) on their own	(D) by and large
15.	(A) among	(B) regarding	(C) including	(D) through

In 1985, a riot at a Brussels soccer match occurred, in which many fans lost their lives. The tragedy began 45 minutes before the start of the European Cup final. The British team was scheduled to compete against the Italian team in the game. Noisy British fans, after setting off some rockets and fireworks to cheer for their team, broke through a thin wire fence and started to attack the Italian fans. The Italians, in panic, headed for the main exit in their section when a six-foot concrete wall collapsed.
By the end of the night, 38 soccer fans had died and 437 were injured. The majority of the deaths resulted from people being trampled underfoot or crushed against barriers in the stadium. As a result of this 1985 soccer incident, security measures have since been tightened at major sports competitions to prevent similar events from happening.
16.	(A) circumstance	(B) sequence	(C) tragedy	(D) phenomenon
17.	(A) oppose to	(B) fight over	(C) battle for	(D) compete against
18.	(A) a	(B) that	(C) each	(D) their
19.	(A) headed for	(B) backed up	(C) called out	(D) passed on
20.	(A) be	(B) been	(C) being	(D) to be

The Taiwanese puppet show (“Budaixi”) is a distinguished form of performing arts in Taiwan. Although basically hand puppets, the figures appear as complete forms, with hands and feet, on an elaborately decorated stage.
The puppet performance is typically accompanied by a small orchestra. The backstage music is directed by the drum player. The drummer needs to pay attention to what is going on in the plot and follow the rhythm of the characters. He also uses the drum to conduct the other musicians. There are generally around four to five musicians who perform the backstage music. The form of music used is often associated with various performance techniques, including acrobatics and skills like window-jumping, stage movement, and fighting. Sometimes unusual animal puppets also appear on stage for extra appeal, especially for children in the audience.
In general, a show needs two performers. The main performer is generally the chief or director of the troupe. He is the one in charge of the whole show, manipulating the main puppets, singing, and narrating. The supporting performer manipulates the puppets to coordinate with the main performer. He also changes the costumes of the puppets, and takes care of the stage. The relationship between the main performer and his partner is one of master and apprentice. Frequently, the master trains his sons to eventually succeed him as puppet masters.
Budaixi troupes are often hired to perform at processions and festivals held in honor of local gods, and on happy occasions such as weddings, births, and promotions. The main purpose of Budaixi is to worship and offer thanks to the deities. The shows also serve as a popular means of folk entertainment.
(A) attracted	(B) appeal	(C) accompanied	(D) conduct	(E) director	(F) figures
(G) occasions	(H) succeed	(I) transparent	(J) supporting	(K) techniques	(L) worship

All advertising includes an attempt to persuade.   31   Even if an advertisement claims to be purely informational, it still has persuasion at its core. The ad informs the consumers with one purpose: to get the consumer to like the brand and, on that basis, to eventually buy the brand. Without this persuasive intent, communication about a product might be news, but it would not be advertising.
Advertising can be persuasive communication not only about a product but also an idea or a person. 
  32   Although political ads are supposed to be concerned with the public welfare, they are paid for and they all have a persuasive intent.   33   A Bush campaign ad, for instance, did not ask anyone to buy anything, yet it attempted to persuade American citizens to view George Bush favorably.   34   Critics of President Clinton’s health care plan used advertising to influence lawmakers and defeat the government’s plan. 
  35   For instance, the international organization Greenpeace uses advertising to get their message out. In the ads, they warn people about serious pollution problems and the urgency of protecting the environment. They, too, are selling something and trying to make a point. 
(A)	Political advertising is one example.
(B)	To put it another way, ads are communication designed to get someone to do something. 
(C)	Advertising can be the most important source of income for the media through which it is conducted.
(D)	They differ from commercial ads in that political ads “sell” candidates rather than commercial goods.
(E)	Aside from campaign advertising, political advertising is also used to persuade people to support or oppose proposals.
(F)	In addition to political parties, environmental groups and human rights organizations also buy advertising to persuade people to accept their way of thinking.

A sense of humor is something highly valued. A person who has a great sense of humor is often considered to be happy and socially confident. However, humor is a double-edged sword. It can forge better relationships and help you cope with life, but sometimes it can also damage self-esteem and antagonize others.
People who use bonding humor tell jokes and generally lighten the mood. They’re perceived as being good at reducing the tension in uncomfortable situations. They often make fun of their common experiences, and sometimes they may even laugh off their own misfortunes. The basic message they deliver is: We’re all alike, we find the same things funny, and we’re all in this together.
Put-down humor, on the other hand, is an aggressive type of humor used to criticize and manipulate others through teasing. When it’s aimed against politicians, as it often is, it’s hilarious and mostly harmless. But in the real world, it may have a harmful impact. An example of such humor is telling friends an embarrassing story about another friend. When challenged about their teasing, the put-down jokers might claim that they are “just kidding,” thus allowing themselves to avoid responsibility. This type of humor, though considered by some people to be socially acceptable, may hurt the feelings of the one being teased and thus take a toll on personal relationships.
Finally, in hate-me humor, the joker is the target of the joke for the amusement of others. This type of humor was used by comedians John Belushi and Chris Farley—both of whom suffered for their success in show business. A small dose of such humor is charming, but routinely offering oneself up to be humiliated erodes one’s self-respect, and fosters depression and anxiety.
So it seems that being funny isn’t necessarily an indicator of good social skills and well-being. In certain cases, it may actually have a negative impact on interpersonal relationships.
36.	According to the passage, which group is among the common targets of put-down humor?
(A)	Comedians.	(B)	People who tell jokes.
(C)	Politicians.	(D)	People who are friendly to others.
37.	How can people create a relaxing atmosphere through bonding humor?
(A)	By laughing at other people’s misfortunes.
(B)	By joking about experiences that they all have.
(C)	By revealing their own personal relationships.
(D)	By making fun of unique experiences of their friends.
38.	According to the passage, which of the following is true about John Belushi and Chris Farley?
(A)	They suffered from over-dosage of anxiety pills. 
(B)	They often humiliated other people on the stage.
(C)	They were successful in their careers as comedians.
(D)	They managed to rebuild their self-respect from their shows.
39.	What is the message that the author is trying to convey?
(A)	Humor deserves to be studied carefully.
(B)	Humor has both its bright side and dark side.
(C)	Humor is a highly valued personality trait.
(D)	Humor can be learned in many different ways.

On June 23, 2010, a Sunny Airlines captain with 32 years of experience stopped his flight from departing. He was deeply concerned about a balky power component that might eliminate all electrical power on his trans-Pacific flight. Despite his valid concerns, Sunny Airlines’ management pressured him to fly the airplane, over the ocean, at night. When he refused to jeopardize the safety of his passengers, Sunny Airlines’ security escorted him out of the airport, and threatened to arrest his crew if they did not cooperate.
Besides that, five more Sunny Airlines pilots also refused to fly the aircraft, citing their own concerns about the safety of the plane. It turned out the pilots were right: the power component was faulty and the plane was removed from service and, finally, fixed. Eventually a third crew operated the flight, hours later. In this whole process, Sunny Airlines pressured their highly experienced pilots to ignore their safety concerns and fly passengers over the Pacific Ocean at night in a plane that needed maintenance. Fortunately for all of us, these pilots stood strong and would not be intimidated.
Don’t just take our word that this happened. Please research this yourself and learn the facts. Here’s a starting point: www.SunnyAirlinePilot.org. Once you review this shocking information, please keep in mind that while their use of Corporate Security to remove a pilot from the airport is a new procedure, the intimidation of flight crews is becoming commonplace at Sunny Airlines, with documented events occurring on a weekly basis.
The flying public deserves the highest levels of safety. No airlines should maximize their revenues by pushing their employees to move their airplanes regardless of the potential human cost. Sunny Airlines’ pilots are committed to resisting any practices that compromise your safety for economic gain. We’ve been trying to fix these problems behind the scenes for quite some time; now we need your help. Go to www.SunnyAirlinePilot.org to get more information and find out what you can do.
40.	According to the passage, what happened to the captain after he refused to fly the aircraft?
(A)	He was asked to find another pilot to replace his position.
(B)	He was forced to leave the airport by security staff of Sunny Airlines.
(C)	He was made to help the Airlines find out what was wrong with the plane.
(D)	He was fired for refusing to fly the plane and abandoning the passengers.
41.	What is the main purpose of the passage?
(A) To maximize Sunny Airlines’ revenues.
(B) To introduce Sunny Airlines’ pilot training programs.
(C) To review plans for improving Sunny Airlines’ service.
(D) To expose problems with Sunny Airlines’ security practices.
42.	What happened to the aircraft after the pilots refused to operate the flight?
(A)	It was found to be too old for any more flight service.
(B)	Its mechanical problem was detected and finally repaired.
(C)	It was removed from the airport for a week-long checkup.
(D)	Its power component problem remained and no crew would operate the flight.
43.	By whom was the passage most likely written?
(A)	Sunny Airlines security guards.
(B)	Sunny Airlines personnel manager.
(C)	Members of Sunny Airlines pilot organization.
(D)	One of the passengers of the Sunny Airlines flight.

Angry Birds is a video game developed by Finnish computer game developer Rovio Mobile. Inspired primarily by a sketch of stylized wingless birds, the game was first released for Apple’s mobile operating system in December 2009. Since then, over 12 million copies of the game have been purchased from Apple’s App Store.
With its fast-growing popularity worldwide, the game and its characters—angry birds and their enemy pigs—have been referenced in television programs throughout the world. The Israeli comedy 
A Wonderful Country, one of the nation’s most popular TV programs, satirized recent failed Israeli-Palestinian peace attempts by featuring the Angry Birds in peace negotiations with the pigs. Clips of the segment went viral, getting viewers from all around the world. American television hosts Conan O’Brien, Jon Stewart, and Daniel Tosh have referenced the game in comedy sketches on their respective series, Conan, The Daily Show, and Tosh.0. Some of the game’s more notable fans include Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, who plays the iPad version of the game, and author Salman Rushdie, who is believed to be “something of a master at Angry Birds.”
Angry Birds and its characters have also been featured in advertisements in different forms. In March 2011, the characters began appearing in a series of advertisements for Microsoft’s Bing search engine. In the same year, Nokia projected an advertisement in Austin, Texas that included the game’s characters on a downtown building for its new handset. Later, a T-Mobile advertisement filmed in Spain included a real-life mock-up of the game in a city plaza. Nokia also used the game in Malaysia to promote an attempt to set a world record for the largest number of people playing a single mobile game.
Angry Birds has even inspired works of philosophical analogy. A five-part essay entitled “Angry Birds Yoga—How to Eliminate the Green Pigs in Your Life” was written by Giridhari Dasar in Brazil, utilizing the characters and gameplay mechanics to interpret various concepts of yoga philosophy. The piece attracted much media attention for its unique method of philosophical presentation.
44.	What is the purpose of the passage?
(A) To explain how the video game Angry Birds was devised.
(B) To investigate why Angry Birds has quickly become well-liked.
(C) To introduce Angry Birds characters in TV programs and advertisements.
(D) To report on the spread of Angry Birds in different media around the world.
45.	Which of the following is closest in meaning to the word “viral” in the second paragraph?
(A) Apparent.	(B) Sarcastic.	(C) Exciting.	(D) Popular.
46. According to the passage, which of the following people is good at playing Angry Birds?
(A) Giridhari Dasar.	(B) Conan O’Brien.	(C) Salman Rushdie.	(D) Daniel Tosh.
47. Which of the following is true about the use of Angry Birds, according to the passage?
(A)	It has been cited by UK Prime Minister to illustrate political issues.
(B)	Its characters are used in advertisements mainly for Apple’s products.
(C)	Its real-life mock-up has appeared in an advertisement for mobile phones.
(D)	It has been developed into a film about the life of a Brazilian yoga master.

Demolition is the tearing-down of buildings and other structures. You can level a five-story building easily with excavators and wrecking balls, but when you need to bring down a 20-story skyscraper, explosive demolition is the preferred method for safely demolishing the huge structure.
In order to demolish a building safely, blasters must map out a careful plan ahead of time. The first step is to examine architectural blueprints of the building to determine how the building is put together. Next, the blaster crew tours the building, jotting down notes about the support structure on each floor. Once they have gathered all the data they need, the blasters devise a plan of attack. They decide what explosives to use, where to position them in the building, and how to time their explosions.
Generally speaking, blasters will explode the major support columns on the lower floors first and then on a few upper stories. In a 20-story building, the blasters might blow the columns on the first and second floor, as well as the 12th and 15th floors. In most cases, blowing the support structures on the lower floors is sufficient for collapsing the building, but loading explosives on upper floors helps break the building material into smaller pieces as it falls. This makes for easier cleanup following the blast. The main challenge in bringing a building down is controlling the direction in which it falls. To topple the building towards the north, the blasters set off explosives on the north side of the building first. By controlling the way it collapses, a blasting crew will be able to tumble the building over on one side, into a parking lot or other open area. This sort of blast is the easiest to execute, and it is generally the safest way to go.
48.	What do the blasters need to do in preparing for the demolition of a building, according to the passage?
(A) Study the structure of the building.	(B) Hire an experienced tour guide.
(C) Make a miniature of the building.	(D) Consult the original architect.
49.	In most cases, where does the explosion start in the building during its destruction?
(A) The topmost layer.	(B) The upper floors.	(C) The lower levels.	(D) The basement.
50.	According to the following diagram, which part of the target building should the demolition team explode first to safely bring it down?
(A) The east side.	(B) The west side.
(C) The south side.	(D) The north side.
51.	What is the passage mainly about?
(A)	How to execute demolition at the right time.
(B)	How to collapse a building with explosives.
(C)	How to use explosives for different purposes.
(D)	How to destroy a building with minimum manpower.