1.	John is very close to his family. Whenever he feels depressed, he returns to the warm, ______, and comfortable atmosphere of his home.(A) crucial	(B) sloppy	(C) secure	(D) cautious
2.	Tom ______ something before he left the room, but I couldn’t figure out exactly what he said.(A) mumbled  	(B) perceived  	(C) summoned  	(D) trampled
3.	The content of the book is very much technical and specialized; it is too difficult for a ______ to understand.(A) patriot	(B) hacker	(C) layman	(D) tenant
4.	Food shortages are one of the main causes of ______ nutrition among children in developing countries.(A) distinctive	(B) vigorous	(C) inadequate	(D) abundant
5.	Good writers do not always write ______; on the contrary, they often express what they really mean in an indirect way.(A) explicitly	(B) ironically	(C) persistently	(D) selectively
6.	According to the weather report, some light rain or ______ is expected today. You may need to take an umbrella with you when you go out.(A) hail	(B) breeze	(C) tornado	(D) drizzle
7.	The movie was so popular that many people came to the ______ conclusion that it must be good; however, many professional critics thought otherwise. (A) acute	(B) naive	(C) confidential	(D) skeptical
8.	In ancient times, people used large shells to ______ voices in open-air ceremonies so that their tribal members near and far could hear what was said.(A) amplify	(B) mobilize	(C) penetrate	(D) undermine
9.	The audience held their breath and sat motionless in the theater as they watched the tragic historical event ______ in front of their eyes.(A) ascending	(B) elaborating	(C) illustrating	(D) unfolding
10.	According to government regulations, if employees are unable to work because of a serious illness, they are ______ to take an extended sick leave.(A) adapted	(B) entitled	(C) oriented	(D) intimidated

Ernest Hemingway (1899-1961) was an American author and journalist. His writing style, characterized by simplicity and understatement, influenced modern fiction, as did his life of adventure.
Hemingway started his career as a journalist at 17. In the 1920s, he was sent to Europe as a newspaper correspondent to cover such events as the Greek Revolution. During this period, he produced his early important works, including The Sun Also Rises. Among his later works, the most outstanding is The Old Man and the Sea (1952), which became perhaps his most famous book, finally winning him the Pulitzer Prize he had long been denied.
Hemingway liked to portray soldiers, hunters, bullfighters—tough, at times primitive people whose courage and honesty are set against the brutal ways of modern society, and who in this confrontation lose hope and faith. His straightforward prose is particularly effective in his short stories, some of which are collected in Men Without Women (1927). In 1954, Hemingway was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. He died in Idaho in 1961.
11.	(A) was	(B) being	(C) did	(D) doing
12.	(A) cover	(B) approve	(C) predict	(D) escape
13.	(A) planned	(B) achieved 	(C) examined  	(D) denied
14.	(A) limitation	(B) classification	(C) confrontation	(D) modification 
15.	(A) what	(B) which	(C) them 	(D) these

Road running is one of the most popular and accessible athletic activities in the world. It refers to the sport of running on paved roads or established paths as opposed to track and field, or cross country running. The three most common distances for road running events are 10K runs, half marathons (21.1K), and marathons (42.2K).
Road running is unique among athletic events because it caters to all ages and abilities. In many cases first time amateurs are welcome to participate in the same event as running club members and even current world-class champions. Sometimes it may also include wheelchair entrants.
Road running often offers those involved a range of challenges such as dealing with hills, sharp bends, rough weather, and so on. Runners are advised to train prior to participating in a race. Another important factor contributing to success is a suitable pair of running shoes.
Road running is often a community-wide event that highlights or raises money for an issue or project.
For example, Race for the Cure is held throughout the U.S. to raise breast cancer awareness. This race is also run in Germany, Italy, and Puerto Rico.
16.	(A) journeys	(B) distances	(C) destinations	(D) measurements
17.	(A) caters to	(B) depends on	(C) goes after	(D) identifies with 
18.	(A) matches	(B) civilians	(C) associations	(D) champions
19.	(A) involving	(B) involved	(C) to involve	(D) are involved
20.	(A) Above all	(B) For example	(C) As it appears	(D) To some extent

The 1918 influenza epidemic, which occurred during World War I, was one of the most devastating health crises of the 20th century. Between September 1918 and June 1919, more than 600,000 Americans died of influenza and pneumonia, making the epidemic far more deadly than the war itself. The influenza hit Americans in two waves. The first wave attacked the army camps and was less fatal than the second. The second wave arrived in the port city of Boston in September 1918 with war shipments of machinery and supplies. Other wartime events enabled the disease to sweep through the country quickly. As men across the nation were joining the military to serve the country, they brought the virus with them everywhere they went. In October 1918 alone, the virus killed almost 200,000. In the following month, the end of World War I resulted in an even wider spread of the disease. The celebration of the end of the war with parades and parties was a complete disaster from the standpoint of public health. This accelerated the spread of the disease in some cities. The flu that winter was destructive beyond imagination as millions were infected and thousands died. In fact, it caused many more deaths than any of the other epidemics which had preceded it.
Medical scientists warn that another epidemic will attack people at some point in the future. Today’s worldwide transportation makes it even harder to control an epidemic. Therefore, doctors advise that we continue to get our annual flu shots in order to stay healthy.
(A) military	(B) crisis	(C) harder	(D) wider	(E) deadly	(F) come across
(G) shipments	(H) infected	(I) preceded	(J) warn	(K) accelerated	(L) sweep through

Since the early 1990s, the lithium-ion battery has been the most suitable battery for portable electronic equipment. Today, they’re commonly used for cellphones, computers, tablets, digital cameras, and other devices.
Lithium-ion batteries have nearly twice the energy density of traditional nickel cadmium batteries.   31   This feature has important implications for cellphones and computers, because it makes these items more portable for consumers. It also makes power tools easier to use and allows workers to use them for longer periods of time.
  32   Lithium-ion batteries retain no “memory” of their power capacity from previous charging cycles. Thus they require no scheduled cycling and can be fully re-fueled to their maximum capacity during each charging cycle. Other rechargeable battery types, in contrast, retain information from previous charging cycles, which wastes valuable storage space. Over time, this makes these rechargeable batteries hold less of a charge. 
  33   It is fragile and requires a protection circuit to maintain safe operation. A high load could overheat the pack and safety might be jeopardized.   34   After 2-3 years of use, the pack often becomes unserviceable due to a large voltage drop caused by high internal resistance.
It should be noted, however, that manufacturers are constantly making improvements on lithium-ion batteries.   35   With such rapid progress, the use of lithium-ion batteries will certainly expand further. 
(A)	The lithium-ion battery is also a low maintenance battery.
(B)	Despite its overall advantages, the lithium-ion battery has its drawbacks.
(C)	New and enhanced chemical combinations are introduced every six months or so.
(D)	Attempts to develop rechargeable lithium-ion batteries failed due to memory problems.
(E)	That is, they carry more power in a smaller unit, helping to reduce overall weight and size.
(F)	Another downside is the increase of the internal resistance that occurs with cycling and aging.

Fabergé eggs are jeweled eggs that were made by the famous Russian jeweler, the House of Fabergé, from 1885 to 1917. The eggs were made of valuable metals or stones coated with beautiful colors and decorated with precious jewels.
The first Fabergé egg was crafted for Tsar Alexander III, who gave his wife, the Empress Maria Fedorovna, an Easter egg to celebrate their 20th wedding anniversary. He placed an order with a young jeweler, Peter Carl Fabergé, whose beautiful creations had caught Maria’s eye earlier. On Easter morning of 1885, what appeared to be a simple enameled egg was delivered to the palace. But to the delight of the Empress, the egg opened to a golden yolk; within the yolk was a golden hen; and concealed within the hen was a diamond miniature of the royal crown and a tiny ruby egg. Unfortunately, the last two surprises are now lost to history.
Empress Maria was so delighted by this gift that Alexander appointed Fabergé a “goldsmith by special appointment to the Imperial Crown.” The Tsar also asked Fabergé to make an Easter egg every year. The requirements were straightforward: Each egg must be unique, and each must contain a pleasant surprise. With excellent craftsmanship and an inventive spirit, Peter Fabergé and his successors repeatedly met the challenge. The House of Fabergé made approximately 50 Imperial Easter Eggs for Tsar Alexander III and his son Nicholas II until 1917, when the Russian revolution broke out. 
Today, the term “Fabergé eggs” has become a synonym of luxury and the eggs are regarded as masterpieces of the jeweler’s art. More significantly, perhaps, they serve as reminders of the last Russian imperial family.
36.	Why did Tsar Alexander III choose Peter Fabergé to make the first Easter egg?
(A)	Peter Fabergé was the goldsmith for the royal family.
(B)	Empress Maria was impressed by Peter Fabergé’s work.
(C)	Tsar Alexander III received an order from Empress Maria.
(D)	Peter Fabergé owned the most famous Russian jewelry house.
37.	What went missing from the first Fabergé egg?
(A)	A golden hen and a ruby egg. 	(B)	A golden hen and a golden yolk.
(C)	A ruby egg and a diamond crown.	(D)	A golden yolk and a diamond crown.
38.	What does it mean by “Peter Fabergé and his successors repeatedly met the challenge” in the third paragraph?
(A)	They repeated their designs over and over.
(B)	They fulfilled the Tsar’s requirements each time.
(C)	They challenged the Tsar’s expectations every year.
(D)	They were faced with unexpected difficulties time and again.
39.	Which of the following statements about the Fabergé eggs is true, according to the passage?
(A)	They were all genuine creations of the jeweler, Peter Fabergé.
(B)	They were created to represent Russian emperors and their dynasty.
(C)	They were made for annual Easter parties in the Russian imperial court.
(D)	They were connected to the last two Russian emperors and their families.

Six Sigma is a highly disciplined process that helps companies focus on developing and delivering near-perfect products and services. The word “sigma” is a statistical term that measures how far a given process falls short of perfection. The central idea behind Six Sigma is that if a company can measure how many “defects” they have in a commercial production process, they can systematically figure out how to eliminate the problems and get as close to “zero defects” as possible.
Training and teamwork are essential elements of the Six Sigma methodology. In other words, companies need to have their team leaders and team members trained to implement the Six Sigma processes. They must learn to use the measurement and improvement tools. They also need to learn communication skills necessary for them to involve customers and suppliers and to serve their needs. 
Six Sigma was developed in 1986 by Motorola, an American telecommunications company. Engineers in Motorola used it as an informal name for a plan to reduce faults in production processes. A few years later, Motorola extended the name “Six Sigma” to mean a general performance improvement method, beyond purely “defect reduction” in the production process. In 1995, Jack Welch, CEO of General Electrics (GE), decided to implement Six Sigma in GE; and by 1998 GE claimed that Six Sigma had generated over three-quarters of a billion dollars of cost savings. 
By 2000, Six Sigma was effectively established as an industry in its own right, involving the training, consultancy and implementation of Six Sigma methodology in all sorts of organizations around the world. Organizations as diverse as local governments, prisons, hospitals, the armed forces, banks, and multi-national corporations have been adopting Six Sigma for quality and process improvement. 
40.	According to the passage, what is “Six Sigma”?
(A) A digital device to speed up production processes.
(B) A near-perfect process in business communication.
(C) A statistical term that measures a company’s budgets and profits.
(D) A quality measure that detects problems to improve products and services. 
41.	For Six Sigma to be applied successfully, which of the following are the most crucial factors?
(A) Customers and suppliers’ needs.	(B) Tools in statistics and marketing.
(C) Strong teamwork and proper training.	(D) Good leadership and sufficient budget.
42.	How are the author’s ideas developed in the last two paragraphs?
(A) By definition.	(B) By comparison.	(C) In time order.	(D) In space order.
43.	According to the passage, which of the following is true regarding Six Sigma?
(A) It helped Motorola and General Motors to promote sales.
(B) It requires multi-national efforts to generate satisfactory results.
(C) It has gained popularity mostly among large telecommunications companies.
(D) It has become a business model which provides services to organizations worldwide.

Imagine two bottlenose dolphins swimming in the Gulf of Mexico. You hear a series of clicks, whistles, and whines coming from each, much like a conversation. We can’t be sure what they are discussing, but scientists do believe dolphins call each other by “name.” 
A recent study suggests the marine mammals not only produce their own unique “signature whistles,” but they also recognize and mimic whistles of other dolphins they are close to and want to see again. It seems that dolphins can call those they know by mimicking their distinct whistles. “They’re abstract names,” said Randall Wells, one of the authors of the study.
To conduct the study, the researchers listened to recordings of about 250 wild bottlenose dolphins made around Florida’s Sarasota Bay from 1984 to 2009, and four captive dolphins at a nearby aquarium. 
Some wild dolphins were briefly captured and held in separate nets by the research team, allowing them to hear but not see each other. Researchers found that dolphins familiar with each other would mimic the whistle of another in that group when they were separated. Most of this took place among mothers and calves, or among males who were close associates, suggesting it was affiliative and not aggressive—somewhat like calling out the name of a missing child or friend. Whistle copying of this sort was not found in dolphins that happened to cross paths in the wild.
This use of vocal copying is similar to its use in human language, where the maintenance of social bonds appears to be more important than the immediate defense of resources. This helps differentiate dolphins’ vocal learning from that of birds, which tend to address one another in a more “aggressive context.” 
If confirmed, this would be a level of communication rarely found in nature. If dolphins can identify themselves and address friends with just a few squeaks, it’s easy to imagine what else they’re saying. However, as the authors of the study point out, all we can do right now is still imagine.
44.	What is the main idea of the passage?
(A)	Bottlenose dolphins show strong ties to their family members.
(B)	Bottlenose dolphins recognize their friends’ voices in the wild.
(C)	Bottlenose dolphins produce whistles that distinguish themselves. 
(D)	Bottlenose dolphins demonstrate a unique type of animal communication.
45.	Which of the following statements is true about Wells’s research team?
(A)	Their data were collected over two decades.	
(B)	They recorded the calls of dolphins and birds.
(C)	Their major research base was in Mexico.
(D)	They trained 250 wild dolphins for observation.
46.	What does “this” in the third paragraph refer to?
(A) Recording messages.	(B) Conducting research.
(C) Behavior learning.	(D) Whistle copying.
47.	Which of the following can be inferred from the passage?
(A)	Birds may use their calls to claim territory.	
(B)	Male dolphins whistle when fighting for mates.
(C)	Dolphins make harsh squeaks when hunting for food.
(D)	Both dolphins and birds tend to mimic their enemies’ whistles.

With soaring rock formations, uniquely-rippled landscapes, and mysterious underground cities, the Goreme National Park is an incredible tourist attraction in central Turkey. 
Thousands of years ago a group of ancient volcanoes spewed out layer upon layer of thick ash and lava which formed the Cappadocia region, where the Goreme National Park is now located. Over the centuries the wind and rain worked their magic on this land, carving out spectacular gorges and leaving behind the dramatic towering formations of rock pillars that reach heights of 40 meters. These amazing structures are usually called “fairy chimneys.” They come in an extraordinary range of shapes and sizes, but most are tall and resemble king trumpet mushrooms with a cap on top. The top stone is the hardest part of each formation and protects the softer rock underneath from erosion. Eventually, however, these caps fall off, whereupon the wind and rain start to cut away the cone until it, too, collapses. The unique landforms of the Goreme valley have created its lunar-like landscape, also known as a moonscape.
But the Goreme National Park has always been much more than its dramatic scenery. Humans, too, have left their unique mark on the region. The Byzantine Christians inhabited the area in the fourth century. They carved thousands of cave churches, chapels, and monasteries out of rock. Many of these churches were decorated with beautiful wall paintings whose colors still retain all their original freshness. The Byzantine Christians even carved out entire underground villages in an effort to hide from the Romans and later, the Muslims. To this day, many of these villages are still inhabited and many of the rock-cut storerooms are still stuffed with grapes, lemons, potatoes and flat bread waiting for the winter. 
48.	How is the landscape of the Goreme National Park formed? 
(A)	It is the effect of erosions of volcanic rocks by wind and water. 
(B)	It is the outcome of cumulative ash and lava from volcanoes. 
(C)	It is the creation of some mysterious forces from the moon.
(D)	It is the result of rock cutting by the Byzantine Christians.
49.	Which of the following descriptions of the “fairy chimneys” is true?
(A)	They are almost identical in size and shape.
(B)	They have mushrooms growing on the top.
(C)	They are formed by rocks of different hardness.
(D)	They have strong bottoms to support their 40-meter height. 
50.	Which of the following has NOT been a function served by the carved rocks in the Goreme National Park?
(A) Refuge.	(B) Gallery.	(C) Residence.	(D)	Place of worship.
51.	Which of the following sentences best states the main idea of the passage?
(A)	Goreme is a wonder where nature meets man.
(B)	Goreme is a representation of ancient Turkish life.
(C)	Goreme is a living example of the power of nature.
(D)	Goreme is an attraction that mixes the new and the old. 