1.	Gorillas have often been portrayed as a fearful animal, but in truth these shy apes ______ fight over sex, food, or territory.(A) constantly	(B) shortly	(C) nearly	(D) rarely
2.	With her nine-to-five job, Sally sometimes has to run personal ______ during the lunch break, such as going to the bank or mailing letters.(A) affairs	(B) errands	(C) belongings	(D) connections
3.	After an argument with the parents of his students, the teacher finally admitted his mistake and ______ himself to ask for their forgiveness.(A) resisted	(B) humbled	(C) detected	(D) handled
4.	Instead of criticizing other people, we should focus on their strengths and give them ______.(A) compliments	(B) compromises	(C) convictions	(D) confessions
5.	Taking advantage of a special function of the search engine, users can ______ the Internet without leaving behind any history of the webpages they visit.(A) browse	(B) stride	(C) rumble 	(D) conceal
6.	Due to extremely low rainfall and a dangerous reduction of reservoir water, the area is experiencing the worst ______ in 30 years. (A) fluid	(B) scandal	(C) drought	(D) nuisance
7.	On Teachers’ Day we pay ______ to Confucius for his contribution to the philosophy of education.(A) consent	(B) tribute	(C) devotion	(D) preference
8.	When the fire fighter walked out of the burning house with the crying baby in his arms, he was ______ as a hero by the crowd.(A) previewed	(B) cautioned	(C) doomed	(D) hailed
9.	Due to the worldwide recession, the World Bank’s forecast for next year’s global economic growth is ______.(A) keen	(B) mild	(C) grim	(D) foul
10.	Jeffery has always been a ______ person, so it’s not surprising he got into an argument with his colleagues.(A) respective	(B) preventive	(C) contagious	(D) quarrelsome

“Keeping up with the Joneses” is a catchphrase in many parts of the English-speaking world. Just like “keeping up appearances,” it refers to the comparison to one’s neighbors as a standard for social status or the accumulation of material goods. Generally speaking, the more luxuries people have, the higher their value or social status—or so they believe. To fail to “keep up with the Joneses” is thus perceived as revealing socio-economic inferiority or, as the Chinese would put it, a great loss of face.
The phrase was popularized when a comic strip of the same name was created by cartoonist Arthur R. “Pop” Momand. The strip was first published in 1916 in the New York World, and ran in American newspapers for 28 years before it was eventually adapted into books, films, and musical comedies. The “Joneses” of the title were rich neighbors of the strip’s main characters and, interestingly, they were merely spoken of but never actually seen in person in the comic strip.
11.	(A) reaction	(B) attachment	(C) similarity	(D) comparison
12.	(A) still	(B) so	(C) yet	(D) even
13.	(A) phrase	(B) signal	(C) material	(D) analysis
14.	(A) adapted	(B) admitted	(C) advanced	(D) advised
15.	(A) checked out	(B) watched over	(C) spoken of	(D) traded with

Many people at some point in life have white spots on their fingernails. One of the most common causes for these little white spots is a condition called leukonychia. Although the name sounds pretty serious, the condition typically isn’t. And while many people think the white spots are caused by a calcium or zinc deficiency, that’s generally not the case.
In reality, these spots most often develop as a result of mild to moderate trauma to your nail. If you can’t think of anything that would have injured your nail, consider the fact that nails grow very slowly, so the injury may have occurred weeks before the spots ever appeared. The spots could also be a sign of a mild infection or allergy, or a side effect of certain medications.
Whatever the source of the injury, these spots typically do not require any treatment and should go away as your nail grows out. And they should not return unless you suffer another injury to a nail. However, this generally applies when only a single or a few nails are affected. If all of your nails are showing white spots, the leukonychia could be related to another more serious condition such as anemia, cardiac disease, diabetes, or kidney disease.
16.	(A) isn’t	(B) doesn’t	(C) couldn’t	(D) wouldn’t
17.	(A) in spite of	(B) as a result of	(C) to the best of	(D) for the sake of
18.	(A) might occur	(B) would occur	(C) will have occurred	(D) may have occurred
19.	(A) Supposing	(B) Including	(C) Whatever	(D) Whether
20.	(A) indicates	(B) defines	(C) applies	(D) confirms

Aquaculture is the farming of any aquatic plant or animal. Aquaculture is of great importance because it reduces the possibility of over fishing wild fish, and also improves the quality and increases the supply of fish for human consumption.
Ancient civilizations throughout the world engaged in different types of fish farming. The indigenous people in Australia are believed to have raised eels as early as 6000 BC. Abundant evidence indicates they developed volcanic floodplains near Lake Condah into channels and dams, then captured eels and preserved them to eat all year round. The earliest records of fish culture, however, are from China, where the practice was in wide use around 2500 BC. When the waters subsided after river floods, some fish, mainly carp, were trapped in lakes. Early fish farmers then fed their brood using nymphs and silkworm feces, and ate them afterwards.
In Europe, aquaculture first began in ancient Rome. The Romans, who adored sea fish and oysters, created oyster farms which were similar to swimming pools. Fish and crustaceans (such as shrimps and crabs) caught in lagoons were kept alive in these pools until it was time to eat them. The farms were often built inside wealthier homes, where well-to-do families could invite their guests over and choose the fish they wished to eat. This Roman tradition was later adopted by Christian monasteries in central Europe.
During the Middle Ages, aquaculture spread in Europe, since far away from the seacoasts and the big rivers, fish had to be salted so they did not rot. Throughout feudal Europe, monastic orders and the aristocracy were the main users of freshwater fish, for they had a monopoly over the land, forests, and water courses while the common people could seldom build ponds of their own. As with hunting, illegal fishing was severely punished and the less well-off would have to wait a few centuries before fresh fish was served on their plates.
(A) spread	(B) culture	(C) trapped	(D) adored	(E) alive	(F) monopoly
(G) delicious	(H) illegal	(I) supply	(J) wealthier	(K) evidence	(L) treated

The causes of the French Revolution are complex and still widely debated among historians. However, many scholars agree that food played an important role in the socio-political upheaval.   31  
A main component in the French daily meal, bread was often tied up with the national identity. Studies show that the average 18th-century French worker spent half his daily wage on bread. In 1788 and 1789, however, when the grain crops failed two years in a row, the price of bread shot up to 88 percent of his earnings.   32   The great majority of the French population was starving. Some even resorted to theft or prostitution to stay alive.
   33   Started in the 15th century, this tax on salt consumption was applied particularly to the poor, while the nobility and the privileged were exempted. The high rate and unequal distribution of the tax provoked widespread illegal dealing in salt by smugglers, leading to skyrocketing salt prices. 
However, the royal court at Versailles was isolated from and indifferent to the escalating crisis. The desperate population thus blamed the ruling class for the famine and economic disturbances.   34   The results include the storming of the Bastille, a medieval fortress and prison in Paris, and the eventual beheading of King Louis XVI and his wife, Marie Antoinette.
   35   Yet, the gabelle and the “bread question” remained among the most unsettling social and political issues throughout the Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods (1789-1815) and well beyond.
(A)	External threats closely shaped the course of the Revolution.
(B)	With the collapse of the royal family, calm was restored gradually.
(C)	Meanwhile, peasants’ resentment against the gabelle was spreading. 
(D)	The common household could not afford to buy enough food to meet their basic needs.
(E)	The anger quickly built up, culminating in the massive riots of the French Revolution in 1789.
(F)	Specifically, bread and salt, two most essential elements in the French cuisine, were at the heart of the conflict. 

Born in 1785 in southwestern Germany, Baron Karl Drais was one of the most creative German inventors of the 19th century. The baron’s numerous inventions include, among others, the earliest typewriter, the meat grinder, a device to record piano music on paper, and two four-wheeled human-powered vehicles. But it was the running machine, the modern ancestor of the bicycle, that made him famous. 
The running machine, also called Draisine or hobby horse, was in effect a very primitive bicycle: it had no chains and was propelled by riders pushing off the ground with their feet. Though not a bike in the modern sense of the word, Drais’ invention marked the big bang for the bicycle’s development. It was the first vehicle with two wheels placed in line. The frame and wheels were made of wood; the steering already resembled a modern handlebar. Drais’ big democratic idea behind his invention was to find a muscle-powered replacement for the horses, which were expensive and consumed lots of food even when not in use. The machine, he believed, would allow large numbers of people faster movement than walking or riding in a coach.
Drais undertook his first documented ride on June 12, 1817, covering a distance of 13 kilometers in one hour. A few months later, Drais created a huge sensation when he rode 60 kilometers in four hours. These were later followed by a marketing trip to Paris, where the hobby horse quickly caught on. The fad also quickly spread to Britain.
The success of the hobby horse was short-lived, though. They were heavy and difficult to ride. Safety was an issue, too: They lacked a brake, as well as cranks and pedals. There were frequent collisions with unsuspecting pedestrians, and after a few years Drais’ invention was banned in many European and American cities. Drais’ ideas, however, did not disappear entirely. Decades later, the machine was equipped by Frenchmen Pierre Lallement and Pierre Michaux with pedals to become the modern bicycle.
36. Why did Drais invent the running machine?
(A) To prove his creativity as an inventor.
(B) To protect the horses from being abused.
(C) To provide a new gadget for the royal class.
(D) To give the general public a better means of transportation.
37. What does “marked the big bang” mean in the second paragraph?
(A) Gave out huge noise.	(B) Created serious disturbance.
(C) Enjoyed wide popularity.	(D) Represented groundbreaking work.
38. Which of the following descriptions is true about the running machine?
(A) It was equipped with cranks and pedals.
(B) Its wheels and frame were made of iron.
(C) It had a brake to control the speed of its movement.
(D) Its steering was similar to the handlebar of a modern bike.
39. Why did the hobby horse fail to become a common vehicle in the 19th century?
(A) It was expensive and not durable enough.
(B) It did not go as fast as people had expected.
(C) It was hard to control and dangerous to ride on the road.
(D)	It did not receive enough public attention in European cities.

Flickering lamps can induce headaches. But if the flickering happens millions of times a second—far faster than the eye can see or the brain process—then it might be harnessed to do something useful, like transmitting data. This is the idea behind Li-Fi, or Light Fidelity. The term Li-Fi was coined by University of Edinburgh Professor Harald Haas in a 2011 TED Talk, where he introduced the idea of “wireless data from every light.” Today, Li-Fi has developed into a wireless technology that allows data to be sent at high speeds, working with light-emitting diodes (LEDs), an increasingly popular way to illuminate public areas and homes.
Using LED lights as networking devices for data transmission, Li-Fi has several advantages over Wi-Fi (Wireless Fidelity). First, Li-Fi allows for greater security on local networks, as light cannot penetrate walls or doors, unlike radio waves used in Wi-Fi. As long as transparent materials like glass windows are covered, access to a Li-Fi channel is limited to devices inside the room, ensuring that signals cannot be hacked from remote locations. Also, Li-Fi can operate in electromagnetic sensitive areas such as aircraft cabins, hospitals, and nuclear power plants, for light does not interfere with radio signals. The most significant advantage of Li-Fi is speed. Researchers have achieved speeds of 224 gigabits per second in lab conditions, much faster than Wi-Fi broadband.
How could Li-Fi enrich daily life? Anywhere there is LED lighting, there is an opportunity for Li-Fi enabled applications. Li-Fi-enabled street lights could provide internet access to mobile phones, making walking at night safer. The LED bulbs in traffic lights could provide drivers with weather conditions and traffic updates. Li-Fi could help with tourism by providing an easier access to local information. At home, smart light could also provide parents with solutions to their children’s Internet addiction: Just turn off the lights and you’ve turned off their access.
When 14 billion light bulbs mean 14 billion potential transmitters of wireless data, a cleaner, a greener, and even a brighter future is on the way.
40. What is this passage mainly about?
(A) A new design in lighting.	(B) Wireless transmission through illumination.
(C) Radio interference in public areas.	(D) Potential applications of Li-Fi for military use.
41. What does “This” in the first paragraph refer to?
(A) Flickering light is a nuisance.	(B) Light flashes can deliver messages.
(C) The brain can be affected by lighting.	(D) Human eyes can perceive changes in light.
42. According to the passage, which of the following statements is NOT true about Li-Fi?
(A) It passes through concrete walls.	(B) It was first introduced in 2011.
(C) It transmits data at high speed.	(D) It may help with parenting.
43. According to the passage, which of the following is an advantage of Li-Fi over Wi-Fi?
(A) Li-Fi can be powered by radio and save more energy.
(B) Li-Fi guides pedestrians in areas where vehicles cannot travel.
(C) Li-Fi provides safer transmission of data during a power failure.
(D) Li-Fi can be used in areas where Wi-Fi may interfere with radar signals.

Some of the world’s largest beetles are getting smaller because their habitats are warming up, according to new research from the University of British Columbia, Canada. The study, published in the Journal of Animal Ecology in January 2018, shows that climate change is having an impact on these “teeny tiny” organisms.
The study began with a deep dive into the scientific literature. Evolutionary ecologist Michelle Tseng and her students combed through all the articles they could find, looking for laboratory studies of temperature effects on insects. They found 19 that indicated at least 22 beetle species shrank when raised in warmer than normal temperatures.
To see whether this pattern held true in the wild, the team made use of the university’s 600,000-specimen insect collection, which included thousands of bugs collected locally since the late 1800s. The researchers took photographs of more than 6,500 beetles from the eight species with the most extensive records. They also looked at climate records to determine trends in rainfall and other factors besides temperature. Sorting the beetles into size categories, they found that five of the eight species have shrunk over the past century. The four largest species of beetles, including the snail-killer ground beetles, shrank 20% in the past 45 years. In contrast, smaller beetles were unaffected or even slightly increased in size.
Some ecologists are cautious about Tseng’s findings, saying that it hasn’t yet been proved whether the warming temperatures are the actual cause for the beetle shrinkage. UK biologist Alan Ronan Baudron, however, is convinced. Baudron’s studies have documented shrinkage of certain fish species due to climate warming. His account is that warmer temperatures lower the concentration of oxygen in the water, causing fish to burn energy faster and mature at a smaller size. But neither he nor Tseng is convinced that decreased oxygen can explain the shrinkage in the beetles.
44.	What is the best title for the passage?
(A) Large Beetles Are Shrinking, Thanks to Climate Change
(B) Beetles vs. Fish: Are They Becoming Smaller?
(C) What We Know About Evolutionary Ecology
(D) Animal Ecology: Past and Present
45. What does “a deep dive” most likely mean in the second paragraph?
(A) A clear indication.	(B) An important finding.
(C) A thorough examination.	(D) An insightful comment.
46. Which of the following is true about the research method of Tseng’s team?
(A) They conducted both laboratory and field studies.
(B) They took pictures of 600,000 specimens of insects.
(C) They divided the beetles into different size groups for examination.
(D) They recorded the degrees of oxygen concentration since the late 1800s. 
47. Which of the following is a finding of Tseng’s team?
(A) Eight species of beetles have shrunk over the past century.
(B) Some beetles were not affected by temperature change.
(C) Most beetles tend to live longer with climate warming.
(D) Beetles and fish may shrink down to the same size.

In order to protect the diversity of crops from catastrophe, the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, a seed bank, was built beneath a mountain on an Arctic island halfway between Norway and the North Pole. The Vault is meant to help farmers and scientists find the genes they need to improve today’s crops. It also aims to breed varieties that might better respond to emerging challenges, such as climate change and population growth. Currently, the Vault holds more than 860,000 samples, originating from almost every country in the world.
There is now, however, a growing body of opinion that the world’s faith in Svalbard is misplaced. Those who have worked with farmers in the field say that diversity cannot be boxed up and saved in a single container—no matter how secure it may be. Crops are always changing, pests and diseases are always adapting, and global warming will bring additional challenges that remain unforeseen. In a perfect world, the solution would be as diverse and dynamic as plant life itself.
The dispute about how best to save crop diversity centers on whether we should work with communities in the fields or with institutions, since it will be extremely difficult to find enough funding to do both. Now the isolated Svalbard seed vault is sucking up available funding. Yet, the highly centralized approach may not be able to help farmers cope with climate change, fifty or a hundred years from now. According to new research findings, as much as 75 percent of global crop diversity exists outside the big institutional seed banks. Such diversity is held instead by some of the world’s most marginal farmers. Moreover, it is argued with increasing force that seed banks can neither make up for the practical knowledge of farmers on the ground, nor compete with their ingenuity.
48. What is the main idea of this passage?
(A) Seed banks can help farmers improve their crops.
(B) The practice of seed banks requires global cooperation.
(C) The idea of saving crop diversity in seed banks is debatable.
(D) Seed banks are able to deal with challenges of climate change.
49. According to this passage, which of the following statements is true about the Svalbard Global Seed Vault?
(A) It is using up a lot of the funding.	(B) It is located in the center of Norway.
(C) It aims to fight against gene modified crops.	(D) It holds 75 percent of global crop diversity.
50. Which of the following is true about the role of farmers in preserving crop variety?
(A) Competing with seed banks.	(B) Providing practical knowledge.
(C) Packaging seeds for research.	(D) Responding to population growth.
51. What does “the highly centralized approach” in the third paragraph refer to?
(A) Working with institutions.	(B) Working with farmers.
(C) Finding enough crop diversity.	(D) Finding sufficient funds.