1.	Bobby cared a lot about his _____ at home and asked his parents not to go through his things without his permission.(A) discipline	(B) facility	(C) privacy	(D) representation
2.	The new manager is a real gentleman. He is kind and humble, totally different from the former manager, who was _____ and bossy.(A) eager	(B) liberal	(C) mean	(D) inferior
3.	The weather bureau _____ that the typhoon would bring strong winds and heavy rains, and warned everyone of the possible danger. (A) conveyed	(B) associated	(C) interpreted	(D) predicted
4.	Different airlines have different _____ for carry-on luggage, but many international airlines limit a carry-on piece to 7 kilograms.(A) landmarks	(B) restrictions	(C) percentages	(D) circumstances
5.	Many people were happy that the government had finally _____ ChildrenŌĆÖs Day as a national holiday.(A) appointed	(B) declared	(C) performed	(D) involved
6.	To reach the goal of making her company a market leader, Michelle _____ a plan to open ten new stores around the country this year.(A) advised	(B) occupied	(C) proposed	(D) recognized
7.	Silence in some way is as _____ as speech. It can be used to show, for example, disagreement or lack of interest.(A) sociable	(B) expressive	(C) reasonable	(D) objective
8.	This TV program is designed for children, _____ for those under five. It contains no violence or strong language. (A) particularly	(B) sensibly	(C) moderately	(D) considerably
9.	Tommy, please put away the toys in the box, or you might _____ on them and hurt yourself.(A) stumble	(B) graze	(C) navigate	(D) dwell
10.	The _____ costume party, held every September, is one of the biggest events of the school year.(A) initial	(B) annual	(C) evident	(D) occasional
11.	In a job interview, attitude and personality are usually important _____ that influence the decision of the interviewers.A) factors	(B) outcomes	(C) missions	(D) identities
12.	The snow-capped mountain is described so _____ in the book that the scene seems to come alive in front of the readerŌĆÖs eyes.(A) distantly	(B) meaningfully	(C) cheerfully	(D) vividly
13.	Surrounded by flowers blooming and birds _____ merrily, the Wangs had a good time hiking in the national park.(A) napping	(B) scooping	(C) flipping	(D) chirping
14.	It is essential for us to maintain constant _____ with our friends to ensure that we have someone to talk to in times of need.(A) benefit	(B) contact	(C) gesture	(D) favor
15.	The young generation in this country has shown less interest in factory work and other _____ labor jobs, such as house construction and fruit picking.(A) causal	(B) durable	(C) manual	(D) violentŌĆā

April FoolsŌĆÖ Day, one of the most light-hearted days of the year, has an unclear origin. Some see it as a celebration related to the turn of the seasons from winter to spring; others, however, believe that it stems from the adoption of a new calendar.
Ancient cultures celebrated New YearŌĆÖs Day on or around April 1, which roughly coincides with the beginning of spring. In 1582, Pope Gregory XIII ordered a new calendar, which called for New YearŌĆÖs Day to be celebrated on January 1. However, many people, either refusing to accept the new date or not having heard about it, continued to celebrate New YearŌĆÖs Day on April 1. Other people began to make fun of these traditionalists, sending them on ŌĆ£foolŌĆÖs errandsŌĆØ or trying to fool them into believing something false. Eventually, the practice spread throughout Europe and the rest of the world.
Nowadays, on April FoolsŌĆÖ Day, people often go to great lengths to create elaborate hoaxes to fool others. Newspapers, radio and TV stations, and websites have participated in the April 1 tradition of making fictional reports in order to fool their audiences. The BBC once reported that Swiss farmers were experiencing a spaghetti crop and showed scenes of people harvesting noodles from trees. Guess what? Numerous viewers were fooled.
16.	(A) leads to	(B) brings out	(C) stems from	(D) comes across
17.	(A) continue	(B) continuing	(C) to continue	(D) continued
18.	(A) Precisely	(B) Eventually	(C) Additionally	(D) Literally
19.	(A) come to an end	(B) go to great lengths	(C) put in service	(D) hold in store
20.	(A) fictional	(B) essential	(C) ancient	(D) subjective

The pineapple, a delicious tropical fruit, has been valued for centuries not only for its distinct and unique taste, but also for its miraculous health and medical benefits. But pineapples can also be a fashionable fruit: Pineapple leaves can serve as a substitute for leather.
The idea was developed when a Spanish designer travelling to the Philippines observed a traditional Filipino shirt woven together with the fibers of pineapple leaves. After five years of research, she created from pineapple leaves a material which, like real leather, can be used for making bags, shoes, and other textile products. It is an eco-friendly and biodegradable fiber.
This eco-friendly leather has clear advantages for the environment, compared to real leather and synthetic leathers. It requires fewer chemicals, making it safer for the workers in factories. Its manufacture also leaves a smaller carbon footprint. In addition, the leftover material following the removal of fibers can even be used as a natural fertilizer back in the pineapple fields. Due to its low cost, this innovative material is already being used by many leading fashion companies to make their products.
21.	(A) bring along	(B) turn out	(C) account for	(D) serve as
22.	(A) wove	(B) weaving	(C) woven	(D) to weave
23.	(A) else	(B) those	(C) other	(D) such
24.	(A) advantages	(B) considerations	(C) opportunities	(D) responsibilities
25.	(A) Due to	(B) Nothing but	(C) In contrast to	(D) On behalf of

Researchers from a university in Japan have developed ŌĆ£diet-glassesŌĆØ that play tricks with oneŌĆÖs perception of food, which could be helpful to people on a diet. A camera and a viewing system are built into these glasses. As the wearer brings the food toward their mouth, the camera captures an image of the food. It replays the image back through the glasses after processing it on an attached computer. The size of the food they are about to eat is magnified while that of their hand remains normal. Their brain is therefore tricked into thinking they are eating more than they really are. The study showed that participants who wore the glasses ate 9.3% less than those who did not wear them.
The team has also developed a special device which uses scent bottles and visual trickery to make the wearers of these glasses think that the plain snack they are eating is tastier than it actually is. The device, for instance, can be set to release oneŌĆÖs favorite flavor. Recent experiments with this device showed that 80% of the participants were fooled by the smell. For example, some participants thought that they were eating a chocolate snack, but in fact they were not.
26.	(A) beyond	(B) into	(C) from	(D) with
27.	(A) this	(B) that	(C) some	(D) other
28.	(A) beforehand	(B) likewise	(C) instead	(D) therefore
29.	(A) prettier	(B) larger	(C) healthier	(D) tastier
30.	(A) impress	(B) release	(C) bother	(D) attract

My father started to suffer from memory loss right after his marriage. Or so my mother told us. She said they were married on May 26, while my dadŌĆÖs memory told him it was June 25. This often ruined their anniversary celebration, for his rose bouquet always came one month late. Mom seldom asked Dad to go shopping in the traditional market for her. But whenever Dad ready on going, she made sure that he brought a shopping list. Dad certainly had the list insisted when he left for the market, but he would somehow forget it, and then would find it again only after he returned home. Of course, the purchases that he made were based mainly on his memory of the list. Unfortunately, the items were usually different from MomŌĆÖs requests.
My fatherŌĆÖs poor memory gave him certain advantages, though. For instance, he was trusted with many secrets in my family and our community. Because of his poor memory, he had the privilege of hearing everyoneŌĆÖs private matters. The reason was obvious: Dad would not remember any of it, we thought. As for our neighbors, they liked to invite my father to dinner so that they could tell him stories about their children, parents, friends, and pets. They also believed the secrets in their families would never be revealed. They were quite right, for my father cared little about who did what to whom. But there is one thing he would never forget: showing up for dinner on time.
(A) little	(B) purchases	(C) trusted	(D) requests	(E) insisted
(F) ready	(G) ruined	(H) privilege	(I) revealed	(J) obvious

Angelfish, often found in the warm seas and coral reefs, are among the most brightly colored fish of the ocean. Brilliant colors and stripes form amazing patterns on their body. These patterns actually help the fish to hide from danger among roots and plants. At night, when these fish become inactive, their colors may become pale. Often, the young ones are differently colored than the adults. Some scientists believe that the color difference between the young and the old indicates their different social positions.
Another interesting fact about angelfish is that they have an occupation in the fish world. Most of them act as cleaners for other fish and pick dead tissue from their bodies. This is not their food, though. Their diet consists mainly of sponge and algae.
One particular kind of angelfish, the blackspot angelfish, has a special capability that allows it to change gender from female to male. However, the change is not made at random; it happens for a specific reason. Angelfish live in groups, and each group has one male fish, which is blue in color, and four female fish, which are yellow. The male angelfish is the strongest and largest member of the group. He is the one who protects and looks after the females. When the male dies, the group needs a new ŌĆ£security guard.ŌĆØ This is when the largest female in the group begins to change in appearance. She begins to grow larger in size, and after a week, she starts changing color, from yellow to blue. Slowly, her behavior toward the other fish also changes. She begins behaving like a male. Two weeks later, black stripes appear on her body, indicating the gender change is complete. She is now completely male!
41.	What is the job of an angelfish in the sea?
(A) Being a cleaner for other fish.	(B) Being a bodyguard for other fish.
(C) Being a gardener for roots and plants.	(D) Being a caretaker for sponge and algae.
42.	Which of the following statements is true about the color of angelfish?
(A) Female angelfish are blue in color.
(B) The colors of the fish become less bright at night.
(C) Male angelfish do not have black stripes on them.
(D) The adult fish and the young ones have the same colors.
43.	According to the passage, what triggers the gender change in the blackspot angelfish?
(A) Dangers to the group.	(B) Changes in the fishŌĆÖs diet.
(C) The birth of young angelfish.	(D) The death of the male fish in a group.
44.	Which of the following describes the order of changes in the features of a blackspot angelfish during gender change?
(A) Size ’āĀ behavior ’āĀ color ’āĀ stripes.	(B) Color ’āĀ size ’āĀ behavior ’āĀ stripes.
(C) Size ’āĀ color ’āĀ behavior ’āĀ stripes.	(D) Color ’āĀ behavior ’āĀ size ’āĀ stripes.

Totem poles in North America are poles or posts carved with symbols or figures by Aboriginal peoples of the Northwest Coast. Carved from large, straight trees and painted vibrant colors, the totem poles are not just unique works of art. The coastal peoples have long passed on knowledge from generation to generation through oral traditions, and totem poles were the traditional way of telling the story of an individual family or clan.
The totem pole can be grouped into specific categories, depending on its location and the occasion for which it was carved. Welcome poles were traditionally placed on village beachfronts to greet visitors arriving by canoe. Inside the homes of high-ranking chiefs is where house poles were found. The familyŌĆÖs history was carefully carved into each pole. Placed along the rear or front walls of a house, house poles also helped to support the main beam of the roof. 
Memorial poles stood in front of a house. They were erected in memory of a deceased chief or a high-ranking clan member. The poles depicted the personŌĆÖs accomplishments or family history. Mortuary poles were also raised to honor the dead, but they differed from memorial poles, having a burial box placed at the top of the pole. Inside the burial box were the remains of the deceased.
While many of these poles can still be found in various locations on the west coast of North America, there is one pole that can now only be found in a museumŌĆöthe shame pole. Traditionally, shame poles were carved for a chief to embarrass and ridicule another who had done something wrong. Once the wrong was made right, the pole was taken down.
Totem poles are important expressions of specific Aboriginal cultures. Despite the threats posed by cultural and political encroachment of colonial forces, the art of totem pole carving has survived. Aboriginal carvers continue to carve totems as symbols of their cultural pride and clan kinship.
45.	Which of the following is the best title for this passage?
(A) Totem Poles, the Legends of Aboriginal Peoples	(B) Totem Poles: Their Functions 
(C) Totem Poles, Symbols of Historical Resistance	(D) Totem Poles: Their Designs 
46.	How is the information about totem poles organized in Paragraphs 2 to 4?
(A) In order of importance.	(B) In order of time.
(C) By cause and effect.	(D) By classification.
47.	Which of the following is located at the edge of a body of water?
(A) The house pole.	(B) The shame pole.	(C) The memorial pole.	(D) The welcome pole.
48.	Which is closest in meaning to the word ŌĆ£encroachmentŌĆØ in the last paragraph?
(A) Invasion.	(B) Appointment.	(C) Objection.	(D) Enrichment.

Music has a tendency to get stuck in our heads. Sometimes a tune intrudes on our thoughts and then plays, and replays, in a never-ending loop. This interesting phenomenon becomes a subject explored by many scientists. They use a range of terms to describe itŌĆöstuck-song syndrome, sticky music, cognitive itch, or most commonly ŌĆ£earworm.ŌĆØ Earworms can run around our heads for several minutes to numerous hours. As the melody repeats, it becomes embedded into our mind. Even though our ears do not hear the tune, our brain continues to play it. 
Earworms often take the form of song fragments rather than entire songs, and the song is usually a familiar one. Researchers are not sure why some songs are more likely to get stuck in our heads than others, but everyone has their own tunes. Often those songs have a simple, upbeat melody and catchy, repetitive lyrics, such as popular commercial jingles and slightly annoying radio hits. Recent or repeated exposure to a song or even a small part of a song can also trigger earworms, as can word associations, such as a phrase similar to the lyrics of a song.
While earworms might be annoying, most people who experience them nevertheless report that they are pleasant or at least neutral. Only a third of people are disturbed by the song in their heads. How people cope with their earworms seems to depend on how they feel about them. Those who have positive feelings about their stuck songs prefer to just ŌĆ£let them be,ŌĆØ while those with negative feelings turn to more behavioral responses, which include coping strategies such as singing, talking, or even praying.
49.	According to the passage, which of the following is true about an earworm?
(A) It is a creature living inside our ears.	(B) It is a tune memorized in a personal way.
(C) It is a melody repeating in our heads.	(D) It is a commercial recalled through lyrics.
50.	Which of the following best defines ŌĆ£subjectŌĆØ in the first paragraph?
(A) A kind of mental disease.	(B) A course being taken.
(C) A participant in an experiment.	(D) A matter being studied.
51.	Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a feature that would trigger earworms?
(A) Tunes repeatedly encountered.	(B) Melodies with smooth rhythms.
(C) Fragments of songs recently heard.	(D) Words similar to the lyrics of a song.
52.	What is the third paragraph mainly about?
(A) Why people find earworms annoying.	(B) How people react to earworms.
(C) What people use to kill earworms.	(D) When people start to notice earworms.

Got a bug bite problem? Many people who are troubled by skin rashes caused by bug bites use ŌĆ£foggers,ŌĆØ or ŌĆ£bug bombs,ŌĆØ to get rid of the annoying crawlers in their homes. Many people think these bug killers or pesticides will penetrate every place where the insects hide. Actually, quite the opposite is true. Once the pests detect the chemical fog in the room, theyŌĆÖll hide themselves in walls or other hideaways, where youŌĆÖll never be able to treat them effectively. 
Ohio State University researchers tested three commercially sold foggers in a study on the effect of foggers on bedbugs. After testing these brands on five different groups of live bedbugs for two hours, the scientists saw that the foggers had littleŌĆöif anyŌĆöeffect on the insects. The researchers said bedbugs hide in cracks and crevices such as under sheets and mattresses, or deep in carpets where foggers wonŌĆÖt reach. Moreover, bugs that do come in contact with the mist may be resistant to the pesticide.
Foggers, or bug bombs, should really be a measure of last resort. First of all, the gases used in bug bombs are highly flammable and thus pose a serious risk of fire or explosion if the product is not used properly. Second, once a bug bomb is used, every surface in your home will be covered with the toxic pesticide. When you use a bug bomb, a chemical mixture rains down on your counters, furniture, floors, and walls, leaving behind oily and toxic substances. Your health might thus be endangered. Therefore, it is suggested that people leave the problem to the professionals.

53.	What is this passage mainly about?
(A) Steps to get rid of bedbugs. 	(B) Ways to use foggers correctly.
(C) The ineffectiveness of bug bombs.	(D) The problems caused by insects.
54.	How do bedbugs react to foggers?
(A) They remain motionless.	(B) They retreat to safe places.
(C) They stop biting people.	(D) They escape into another house.
55.	According to the passage, which of the following statements about foggers is true?
(A) They can cause a fire.	(B) They do not stay on furniture.
(C) They can kill most insects.	(D) They do not contain chemicals.
56.	What does the author advise people to do with bedbug problems?
(A) Choose the right fogger.	(B) Clean the house regularly.
(C) Close the doors when using pesticides.	(D) Consult a pest-control expert.
