1.	The sign in front of the Johnsons’ house says that no one is allowed to set foot on their ______ without permission.(A) margin	(B) shelter	(C) reservation	(D) property
2.	Instead of giving negative criticism, our teachers usually try to give us ______ feedback so that we can improve on our papers.(A) absolute	(B) constructive	(C) influential	(D) peculiar
3.	A study shows that the chance of an accident is much higher for drivers who are ______ in phone conversations while driving.(A) contained	(B) engaged	(C) included	(D) located
4.	Mike trembled with ______ and admiration when he saw the magnificent view of the waterfalls.(A) awe	(B) plea	(C) oath	(D) merit
5.	Ms. Chen has a large collection of books and most of them are quite heavy; she needs a bookshelf ______ enough to hold all of them.(A) coarse	(B) vigorous	(C) portable 	(D) sturdy
6.	The athlete rolled up his sleeves to show his ______ forearms, thick and strong from years of training in weight-lifting. (A) barren	(B) chubby	(C) ragged	(D) muscular
7.	Suffering from a serious financial crisis, the car company is now on the edge of ______, especially with the recent sharp decrease in its new car sales.(A) graduation	(B) capacity	(C) depression	(D) bankruptcy
8.	After the rain, the meadow ______ under the sun with the droplets of water on the grass.(A) rippled	(B) shattered	(C) glistened	(D) mingled
9.	The Great Wall of China was originally built to ______ the northern border of the country against foreign invasion.(A) fortify	(B) rehearse	(C) diminish	(D) strangle
10.	A mad scientist in a novel is often portrayed as a wild-eyed man with crazy hair, working ______ in a lab full of strange equipment and bubbling test tubes.(A) contagiously	(B) distinctively	(C) frantically	(D) tremendously

The fashion industry in Africa has witnessed tremendous growth in recent years. African fashion design has caught the eyes of international celebrities including former US first lady, Michelle Obama, Rihanna, and Beyoncé, among others. Global demand for African-inspired fashion has led to incredible sales for some African designers and brands.
Folake Folarin–Coker, founder of Tiffany Amber, is one of the best-known fashion designers in both the African and global fashion industry. Born in Lagos, Nigeria, she received her education in Europe, where she got an opportunity to interact with various cultures at a young age. Interestingly, she has a master’s degree in law from Switzerland, but as fate would have it, her passion for fashion led her into fashion design.
Folake’s tasteful and colorful creations have earned her global recognition, making her the first African fashion designer to showcase her talent at the New York Mercedes Fashion Week for two consecutive years. She has also been widely featured in international media such as CNN. In 2013, she was listed as one of the Forbes Power Women in Africa.
11.	(A) if any	(B) among others	(C) in short	(D) at best
12.	(A) where	(B) there	(C) that	(D) whether
13.	(A) Generally	(B) Ideally	(C) Relatively	(D) Interestingly
14.	(A) recognition	(B) motivation	(C) supervision	(D) preparation
15.	(A) believed	(B) announced	(C) featured	(D) populated

When we stream the latest TV series, or download high-resolution photos, we are probably unaware that the data behind them is speeding around the world in cables under the sea.
These cable systems, faster and cheaper than satellites, carry most of the intercontinental Internet traffic. Today, there are over 420 submarine cables in service, stretching over 700,000 miles around the world. It is not a new phenomenon, though. The first transcontinental cable—laid in 1854—ran from Ireland to Newfoundland, and made telegraph communication possible between England and Canada. Currently, the world’s highest-capacity undersea Internet cable is a 5,600-mile link between the US and Japan. Suitably named “FASTER,” the cable connects Oregon in the US with Japan and Taiwan.
The submarine cables require extra care to install. They must generally be run across flat surfaces of the ocean floor, and stay clear of coral reefs, sunken ships, fish beds, and other general obstacles. The fiber-optic cables are also very fragile, so they are surrounded with layers of tubing and steel to prevent damage.
16.	(A) at large	(B) in service	(C) by contrast	(D) under control
17.	(A) then  	(B) still	(C) instead	(D) though
18.	(A) Suitably	(B) Constantly	(C) Vitally 	(D) Mockingly
19.	(A) speed	(B) light	(C) care	(D) link
20.	(A) directions	(B) obstacles	(C) aquariums	(D) circulations

The Getty Center sits more than 800 feet above sea level, towering above the city of Los Angeles. A 0.75-mile-long tramway takes visitors to the top of the hill. At the top, four exhibit pavilions and a visitor center form the heart of an eleven-building complex. The museum was originally constructed to house the vast art collection belonging to oil tycoon J. Paul Getty. Today, it is stocked with so many art works that the exhibit arenas can show just a part of them at a time, making the ever-changing special exhibitions a highlight of any visit to the Getty.
The Center’s award-winning architect, Richard Meier, did an outstanding job of creating a public space that has surprised many visitors. Visitors go to the Getty thinking they are visiting a museum with works of art on the inside. What they discover instead is a work of art with a museum inside. The idea is interesting: The outdoor space can be a completely satisfying artistic experience.
Meier took a few basic materials: metal, stone and glass. Working with a billion-dollar budget, he combined them to create a work of architecture that can excite visitors as much as the art collection inside does. Around every corner and at every turn, there is a new view to enchant guests. And then, just when they think they have seen it all, a new fountain or landscape pops up.
The building stone is travertine, imported from Italy, the same source as for the historic buildings in Rome. A special cutting process exposes the fossils long buried inside the stone, which reveals the delicate treasures hidden under the rough surface. Some of them are set as “feature” stones scattered about the site, waiting to delight those who find them. The most fantastic one is on the arrival plaza wall, across from the tram station.
In addition to museum tours, the Getty also provides various free on-site tours, including tours of the gardens. These explorations are a must for anyone interested in learning more about Meier’s techniques and ideas.
(A) delight	(B) explorations	(C) turn	(D) surprised	(E) imported	(F) over-emphasized
(G) artistic	(H) hidden	(I) foundations	(J) materials	(K) house	(L) ever-changing

Copernicus, founder of modern astronomy, was born in 1473 to a well-to-do merchant family in Torun, Poland. He was sent off to attend university in Italy, studying mathematics and optics, and canon law. Returning from his studies abroad, Copernicus was appointed to an administrative position in the cathedral of Frauenburg. There he spent a sheltered and academic life for the rest of his days.
  31   He made his observations from a tower situated on the protective wall around the cathedral. His observations were made with the “bare eyeball,” so to speak, as a hundred years were to pass before the invention of the telescope. In 1530, Copernicus completed his famous work De Revolutionibus, which later played a major role in changing the philosophical view of humankind’s place in the universe.   32   
Copernicus died in 1543 and was never to know what a stir his work would cause. In his book, he asserted that the Earth rotated on its axis once daily and traveled around the Sun once yearly.   33   People then regarded the Earth as stationary, situated at the center of the universe, with the Sun and all the planets revolving around it. Copernicus’ theory challenged the long-held belief that God created the Heavens and the Earth, and could overturn the core values of the Catholic world.   34   Other ministers quickly followed suit, saying of Copernicus, “This fool wants to turn the whole art of astronomy upside down.”
Ironically, Copernicus had dedicated his work to Pope Paul III.   35   The Church ultimately banned De Revolutionibus, and the book remained on the list of forbidden reading material for nearly three centuries thereafter.
(A)	Meanwhile, Copernicus was a lifelong member of the Catholic Church. 
(B)	The book, however, wasn’t published until two months before his death.
(C)	If this act was an attempt to seek the Catholic Church’s approval, it was of no use.
(D)	This went against the philosophical and religious beliefs held during medieval times.
(E)	Religious leader Martin Luther voiced his opposition to the sun-centered system model.
(F)	In his spare time, Copernicus studied the stars and the planets, applying his math knowledge to the mysteries of the night sky.

Tempeh (or tempe), a traditional soy product from Indonesia, is hailed as the country’s “gift to the world,” like kimchi from Korea or miso from Japan.
A stable, cheap source of protein in Indonesia for centuries, tempeh is a fermented food originating from the island of Java. It was discovered during tofu production when discarded soybean residue caught microbial spores from the air and grew certain whitish fungi around it. When this fermented residue was found to be edible and tasty, people began producing it at home for daily consumption across the country. This has given rise to many variations in its flavor and texture throughout different Indonesian regions.
Tempeh is high in protein and low in fat, and contains a host of vitamins. In fact, it is the only reported plant-based source of vitamin B12. Apart from being able to help reduce cholesterol, increase bone density, and promote muscle recovery, tempeh has a lot of polyphenols that protect skin cells and slow down the aging process. Best of all, with the same protein quality as meat and the ability to take on many flavors and textures, tempeh is a great meat substitute—something the vegetarian and vegan communities have been quick in adopting.
In addition to its highly nutritional makeup, tempeh has diverse preparation possibilities. It can be served as a main course (usually in curries) or a side dish to be eaten with rice, as a deep-fried snack, or even blended into smoothies and healthy juices. Though not yet a popular food among international diners, you may find tempeh-substituted BLTs (bacon, lettuce, tomato sandwiches) in San Francisco as easily as you can find vegetarian burgers with tempeh patties in Bali.
For the people of Indonesia, tempeh is not just food but also has cultural value. With the Indonesian traditional fabric batik being recognized by UNESCO as “Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity,” tempeh has great potential for this honor as well.
36. What is the passage mainly about?
(A) The preparation of a health food.	(B) A traditional delicacy from Java.
(C) A gourmet guide for vegetarians.	(D) The cultural heritage of Indonesia.
37. According to the passage, which of the following is true about tempeh?
(A) It is mainly served as a side dish.	(B) It is discarded when fungi grow around it.
(C) It is formed from fermented soybeans.	(D) It has the same nutritional benefits as kimchi.
38. What aspects of tempeh are discussed in paragraphs 2 to 4?
(A) Origin  nutrition  cuisine.	(B) Origin  cuisine  marketing.
(C) Cuisine  nutrition  marketing.	(D) Distribution  cuisine  nutrition.
39. Which of the following can be inferred from this passage?
(A) Senior citizens will eat tempeh as vitamin supplement.
(B) Tempeh will soon be more popular than kimchi or miso.
(C) The nutrition of tempeh will be reduced with mass production.
(D) Tempeh is likely to be recognized as an international cultural symbol.

When Dr. David Spiegel emerged from a three-hour shoulder surgery in 1972, he didn’t use any pain medication to recover. Instead, he hypnotized himself. It worked—to the surprise of everyone but Spiegel himself, who has studied hypnosis for 45 years.
Hypnosis is often misunderstood as a sleep-like state in which a person is put to sleep and does whatever he is asked to do. But according to Dr. Spiegel, it is a state of highly focused attention and intense concentration. Being hypnotized, you tune out most of the stimuli around you. You focus intently on the subject at hand, to the near exclusion of any other thought. This trance-like state can be an effective tool to control pain, ease anxiety, and deal with stress.
Not all people, however, are equally hypnotizable. In a recent study, Dr. Spiegel and his colleagues found that people who are easily hypnotized tend to be more trusting of others, more intuitive, and more likely to get caught up in a good movie. The research team compared people who were highly hypnotizable with those low in hypnotizability. Both groups were given fMRI scans during several different conditions: at rest, while recalling a memory, and during two sessions of hypnotism. The researchers saw some interesting changes in the brain during hypnosis—but only in the highly hypnotizable group. Specifically, there was a drop in activity in the part of the brain which usually fires up when there is something to worry about.
This helps explain how hypnosis can have powerful effects, including reducing stress, anxiety, pain, and self-consciousness. Spiegel hopes that the practice can be used to replace painkillers. His own previous research has shown that when people in pain were taught self-hypnosis, they needed half the pain medication and suffered half the pain of those who were only given access to painkillers. However, more needs to be learned about hypnosis in order to harness its potential effects.
40. How does the author begin the passage?
(A) By giving a definition.	(B) By mentioning an incident.
(C) By providing statistics.	(D) By comparing people’s responses.
41. According to the passage, what is the goal of Dr. Spiegel’s work?
(A) To explain the real cause of pain.
(B) To help people concentrate on their job.
(C) To explore how hypnosis can be used as a medical treatment.
(D) To strengthen the brain’s functions to reduce psychological problems.
42. According to Dr. Spiegel, which of the following is true when people are hypnotized?
(A) They recall only happy memories.	(B) Their mind is fixed only on what they are doing.
(C) They do whatever they are told to do.	(D) They have greater awareness of things around them.
43. What can be inferred about highly hypnotizable people?
(A) They tend to be isolated from the society.
(B) They are more likely to fall asleep during the day.
(C) They may easily identify themselves with characters in fictions.
(D) They are more trustworthy than people who are less hypnotizable.

In many languages, such as English, there is no straightforward way to talk about smell. For want of dedicated odor terminology, English speakers are often forced to use odor-sources such as “flowery” and “vanilla” and metaphors like “sweet” and “oriental” in their descriptions of smell.
But the difficulty with talking about smell is not universal. The Maniq, a group of hunter-gatherers in southern Thailand, can describe smells using at least fifteen different terms, which express only smells and are not applicable across other sensory domains. In addition to Maniq, researchers found that there are also a dozen words for various smells in Jahai, a language spoken by a neighboring hunter-gatherer population.
Interestingly, the difficulty for English speakers to translate smell directly into words seems to have very little to do with the nose’s actual capabilities. According to findings of a recent study, English speakers are capable of discriminating more than a trillion different odors. Then, why is there a gap between their ability to discriminate scent and their vocabulary? The researchers suggest that surroundings may play a significant role. 
Maniq and Jahai speakers live in tropical rainforest regions with a hunting-gathering lifestyle, and these two ethnic groups evaluate their surroundings through their noses to survive in nature. In an environment that is still largely untouched by humans, they are surrounded by smells at all times. They need to use their sense of smell to identify animals that they can hunt, and to recognize objects or events, such as spoiled food, that can pose a danger. Unlike the Maniq and the Jahai, many English speakers inhabit the post-industrial west and do not rely on smells to survive in their environment. This difference may explain the interesting linguistic phenomenon discussed above.
44. What is the purpose of this passage?
(A) To evaluate the languages used by different ethnic groups.
(B) To prove how civilization slows down language development.
(C) To describe how terms of smell are found in different languages.
(D) To point out the link between language use and the environment.
45. What does the word “want” in the first paragraph most likely mean?
(A) Lack.	(B) Growth.	(C) Loss.	(D)	Search.
46. Which of the following is true about the Maniq?
(A) They live in a different climate zone from the Jahai.
(B) Their ability to smell is stronger than that of the Jahai.
(C) They use smell terms to describe how food looks and tastes.
(D) Their living environment is similar to that in earlier human history.
47. Why is it difficult for English speakers to describe smells directly?
(A) They cannot distinguish the smells around them.
(B) The sense of smell is not critical for their survival.
(C) They consider it uncivilized to talk about smells directly.
(D) There are not many sources of odor in their surroundings.

The okapi is a mammal living above the equator in one of the most biodiverse areas in central Africa. The animal was unknown to the western world until the beginning of the 20th century, and is often described as half-zebra, half-giraffe, as if it were a mixed-breed creature from a Greek legend. Yet its image is prevalent in the Democratic Republic of Congo—the only country in the world where it is found living in the wild. The okapi is to Congo what the giant panda is to China or the kangaroo to Australia.
Although the okapi has striped markings resembling those of zebras’, it is most closely related to the giraffe. It has a long neck, and large, flexible ears. The face and throat are greyish white. The coat is a chocolate to reddish brown, much in contrast with the white horizontal stripes and rings on the legs and white ankles. Overall, the okapi can be easily distinguished from its nearest relative. It is much smaller (about the size of a horse), and shares more external similarities with the deer than with the giraffe. While both sexes possess horns in the giraffe, only males bear horns in the okapi.
The West got its first whiff of the okapi in 1890 when Welsh journalist Henry Morton Stanley had puzzled over a strange “African donkey” in his book. Other Europeans in Africa had also heard of an animal that they came to call the “African unicorn.” Explorers may have seen the fleeting view of the striped backside as the animal fled through the bushes, leading to speculation that the okapi was some sort of rainforest zebra. Some even believed that the okapi was a new species of zebra. It was only later, when okapi skeleton was analyzed, that naturalists realized they had a giraffe on their hands.
In 1987, the Okapi Wildlife Reserve was established in eastern Congo to protect this rare mammal. But decades of political turbulence has seen much of the Congo’s natural resources spin out of the government’s control, and okapi numbers have fallen by 50 percent since 1995. Today, only 10,000 remain. 
48. Which of the following is a picture of an okapi?

49. Which of the following descriptions is true about the okapi?
(A) It is an important symbol of Congo.	(B) It is a mystical creature from a Greek legend.
(C) It has been well protected since 1987.	(D) It is more closely related to the zebra than the giraffe.
50. What does the word “whiff” most likely mean in the third paragraph?
(A) Firm belief.	(B) Kind intention.	(C) Slight trace.	(D) Strong dislike.
51. Which of the following can be inferred about Henry Morton Stanley?
(A) He was the first European to analyze okapi skeleton.
(B) He had found many new species of animals in Africa.
(C) He did not know the “African donkey” in his book was the okapi.
(D) He had seen the backside of an okapi dashing through the bushes.