1.	When John proposes an idea, people in his office always lend their support. He feels lucky to have ______ like them.(A) villains	(B) executives	(C) colleagues	(D) intruders
2.	As last year’s MVP (Most Valuable Player), Joan is ______ to the basketball team. No other player can replace her.(A) indispensable	(B) comprehensible	(C) affordable	(D) permissible
3.	The researcher warned that the results of the study needed to be interpreted with ______ because the sample size was not big enough to make firm conclusions.(A) metaphor	(B) caution	(C) enthusiasm	(D) impulse
4.	Although the small group of soldiers was greatly ______ by their enemy, they fought with great courage and finally won the battle.(A) initiated	(B) contradicted	(C) outnumbered	(D) triggered
5.	Mr. Wise received an award for his ______ to the needy children and the elderly in the neighborhood.(A) competence	(B) prospect	(C) momentum	(D) devotion
6.	One simple yet good way to ______ your love for your family is to express it directly in words.(A) manifest	(B) resemble (C) execute	(D) instruct
7.	Cloning animals has been very controversial. Some people consider it a medical breakthrough, while others think it is ______ and should be prohibited.(A) legitimate	(B) inclusive	(C) unethical	(D) nonmilitant
8.	Animals that stay in groups are more likely to find food and detect danger than a ______ animal—multiple pairs of eyes are better than one.(A) contagious	(B) rigid	(C) distinctive	(D) solitary
9.	On the first page of her new book, the writer ______ all the people who helped in the publication of the book.(A) contemplates	(B) acknowledges	(C) inquires	(D) regulates
10.	Due to the recession, it is not easy for people to get ______ paid jobs, even if they are highly educated and well-trained in the field.(A) compatibly	(B) decently	(C) relevantly	(D) virtually

The Consumer Protection Act in Taiwan was enacted on January 11, 1994. The Act demonstrated the government’s efforts to protect consumers’ rights and interests. The Consumer Protection Commission, the current Consumer Protection Committee, serves as the supervisor and coordinator for the various consumer protection organizations that put this law into practice. In order to improve the well-being of consumers in Taiwan, the Committee advocates fair trade and reasonable pricing for goods and services. The Committee also organizes educational programs to raise consumer awareness, and is active in assisting consumers involved in disputes with businesses or manufacturers.
Since its establishment, the Consumer Protection Committee has taken measures that emphasize product safety and sanitation. These measures also ensure that all labels and advertisements conform to regulations. In addition, the Committee collaborates with various international consumer protection organizations to respond to problems involving cross-border trade and business. With its regulatory power and administrative resources, the Committee plays a crucial role in protecting consumers in Taiwan.
11.	(A) serves as	(B) fights for	(C) persists in	(D) corresponds to
12.	(A) prominent	(B) essential	(C) reasonable	(D) intensive
13.	(A) references	(B) shortages	(C) purchases	(D) disputes
14.	(A) conform 	(B) conformed	(C) conforming	(D) to conform
15.	(A) From	(B) With	(C) Despite	(D) Beyond

Scientific discovery can take various forms. One of them is “serendipity,” the luck of finding valuable things unintentionally. Serendipity was at work when Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin, the antibiotic miracle.
Fleming had long been known for having an untidy laboratory. One morning in 1928, this disorder proved very fortunate. It was his first day coming back to work after a long vacation. Before the vacation, he had piled in the sink a number of petri dishes in which he had been growing bacteria. While he was sorting through the long unattended dishes of germs that morning, he observed that some of the dishes were contaminated with a fungus, which had ruined his experiment. He was about to toss out the dishes, but he noticed that in one dish, the bacteria had failed to grow in the area around the fungus. This accidental finding gave rise to subsequent research that led to the discovery of penicillin—a drug that has since saved millions of lives.
Chance alone, however, may not be enough to make key discoveries like this. The scientist must have a prepared and open mind to detect the importance of the unforeseen incident and to use it constructively.
16. (A) merit	(B) opinion	(C) scandal	(D) disorder
17. (A) would pile	(B) had piled	(C) was piling	(D) might have piled
18. (A) disabled	(B) excluded	(C) unattended	(D) misunderstood
19. (A) toss out	(B) get off	(C) catch up	(D) carry on
20. (A) alone	(B) alike	(C) above	(D) ahead

Robert Stroud (1890－1963) was an American prisoner who reared and sold birds and became an ornithologist while in prison. He became known as the “Birdman of Alcatraz.” Despite this nickname, he actually kept birds only at Leavenworth Prison, before he was transferred to Alcatraz.
Stroud is one of the most notorious criminals in American history. He was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to death by hanging in 1916. His mother desperately pleaded for his life. Finally, in 1920, President Woodrow Wilson changed his death sentence to life imprisonment without parole. But because of Stroud’s unpredictable and violent outbursts, the warden directed that Stroud be placed in a separated unit to live out his sentence in total isolation.
While at Leavenworth (1912－1942), Stroud developed a keen interest in birds after finding an injured sparrow in the prison yard. He was given a special right to breed birds and maintain a lab inside his two prison cells. It was felt that this activity would allow for productive use of his time. As a result of this privilege, Stroud was able to author two books on canaries and their diseases. He had raised nearly 300 birds in his cells, carefully studying their habits and physiology. He even developed and marketed medicines for various kinds of bird illness. Although it is widely debated whether the remedies he developed were effective, Stroud was able to make scientific observations that would later benefit research on the canary species.
In 1942, Stroud was transferred to Alcatraz. He spent the next seventeen years there, but was not allowed to keep pets. While there, he wrote two more manuscripts, but these were never published because it was banned by the prison authorities. In 1963, he died in a medical center in Missouri.
(A) keen	(B) breed 	(C) release	(D) banned	(E) supportive	(F) imprisonment
(G) illness 	(H) separated	(I) nickname	(J) effective	(K) pleaded	(L) privilege

Gladiators were combatants who fought against criminals, wild animals, and each other during the time of the Roman Empire. They were armed with deadly weapons and in most cases fought till either one of them accepted defeat or was killed.   31   Roman people enjoyed the sight of blood and violent death. They crowded into the arenas to watch gladiator games, just like we watch football, baseball, and tennis matches today.
  32   Some were slaves bought from different lands under Roman control, and some were prisoners of war. Most of the others were volunteers, a group which once accounted for half of all gladiators. The majority of the gladiators were Thracians, Gauls, and Africans. These combatants were generally skilled fighters and were paid for their services.   33   All of the fighters, both male and female, were well looked after by their owners and rewarded after winning fights. 
Roman historians sometimes called gladiators hordearii, a Latin term which means “barley eaters” in English.   34   Chemical analyses of the bones found in a gladiator graveyard indicated that the typical food eaten by gladiators was wheat, barley, and beans.   35   In addition to a plant-heavy diet, gladiators drank plant ashes to fortify the body after physical exertion and to promote better bone healing. The diet that gladiators followed may be unconventional by modern athletic standards, but in the days of the Romans, this was the diet of heroes.
(A)	Gladiators were recruited from different sources.
(B)	The origins of gladiators were obscure and mysterious.
(C)	Recent research findings suggest that this name was likely literal.
(D)	There is evidence to suggest that females also participated in gladiator contests.
(E)	Gladiators fought for the entertainment of Rome’s rich and mighty, as well as for the public.
(F)	Also, there was little sign of meat or dairy products in the diet of almost all of these professional fighters.

Early civilizations often built drainage systems in urban areas to handle rainwater that ran down the street during a storm. The Romans constructed elaborate systems that also drained wastewater from the public baths. However, as the population of the cities grew, the old drainage systems became overloaded. During the Industrial Revolution, manufacturing waste was added to sewage, which increased the need for more efficient sewage treatment. In the mid-19th century, the first steps were taken to treat wastewater.
Sewage or wastewater treatment in modern times is the process of removing harmful physical, chemical, and biological elements from wastewater and house sewage. The whole process starts with screening out large objects such as paper and wood, and removing heavy materials like dirt. The screened wastewater is then ready to go through a series of concrete tanks for further treatment. In the second step, the sewage passes into the primary tanks. Here, human waste, called sludge, settles to the bottom while oils and grease float to the top, where they are collected. At the same time, organic matter like eggshells or coffee grounds in the sewage is broken down into smaller substances. The remaining sewage then enters the secondary tanks for the third stage of treatment. The solids that were not treated in the primary tanks are removed here through decomposition, which digests the material. Then, the liquid sewage is filtered through sand. This filtering process gets rid of almost all bacteria, as well as other solid particles that remain in the water. Finally, the wastewater flows into the last tanks, where the chemical chlorine is added to kill the remaining bacteria. After the bacteria are destroyed, the chlorine is eliminated from the water, and the treated clean water is discharged into a river or the ocean.
36. What is the passage mainly about?
(A) The elements of sewage.	(B) The treatment of wastewater.
(C) The history of draining systems.	(D) The ways to control manufacturing waste.
37. Which of the following is NOT a reason for developing more effective systems to deal with wastewater? 
(A) Population growth.	(B) Increasing manufacturing waste.
(C) Overloaded drainage systems.	(D) Heavy rainfall due to climate change.
38. Which of the following can be removed in the primary tanks?
(A) Wood.	(B) Heavy material.
(C) Grease.	(D) Organic matter.
39. What is the main reason that liquid sewage needs to go through sand?
(A) To eliminate bacteria.	(B) To drain water.
(C) To dissolve solid particles.	(D) To remove oil.

The planet’s deepest point is in the Pacific Ocean’s Mariana Trench, which lies miles below the sea surface. According to a new study published in Nature Ecology & Evolution, even in this remote locale, creatures cannot escape pollution.
A team of researchers recently sent a remotely operated vehicle into the depths of the Mariana Trench. They found that extraordinarily high levels of forbidden industrial chemicals are contaminating marine life more than 7 miles deep in the trench. The small hard-shelled marine life that the robotic submarine brought to the surface was polluted with toxic chemicals, with toxin levels 50 times greater than those of the most heavily polluted rivers in the world. 
These pollution levels were not the only alarming aspect of the discovery. The types of compounds found were all considered “persistent organic pollutants” (POPs), meaning they stick around in the environment for a very long time. Two of the most prevalent types are PCBs and PBDEs. PCBs were once used in many industrial applications, but were outlawed in the United States in the 1970s after being linked to cancer. Similarly, PBDEs were used in a wide range of products—from electronics to couch cushions. Neither chemical breaks down in the environment.
These compounds stick to the surface of materials like plastic. Many creatures mistakenly eat this colorful but toxic material, causing the POPs to build up in their bodies, lurking in their fat tissues. When these sea creatures die, their POP-riddled bodies sink to the ocean floor, where deep-sea marine life eat their remains. POPs are therefore transferred to other creatures along the food chain.
The Mariana Trench is many miles away from any industrial source. This suggests that these pollutants travel over long distances despite having been prohibited worldwide decades ago.
40. What is the passage mainly about?
(A) The decrease of polluted creatures in the food chain.
(B) Using remote control in research on marine pollution.
(C) Pollution of the deep sea by persistent toxic chemicals.
(D) Types of chemical pollution caused by industrial applications.
41. Which of the following is closest in meaning to “POP-riddled” in paragraph 4?
(A) Operated by POPs.	(B) Filled with POPs.
(C) Completed with POPs.	(D) Discarded by POPs.
42. According to the passage, which of the following statements is true?	
(A) PCBs are often used in making electronic products.	
(B) Chemicals washed down to the ocean stay on the surface.	
(C) The deepest point of the Mariana Trench is free from pollution.
(D) A robotic vehicle was used to help study pollution in the Mariana Trench.
43. Which of the following can be inferred from the passage?
(A) Marine pollution poses a threat to human health.
(B) Strict regulations are being developed to stop ocean pollution.
(C) PCBs and PBDEs become less harmful over long periods of time.
(D) Chemical pollution is more serious in rivers than in industrial areas.

The All Blacks, New Zealand’s national rugby team, is widely credited for bringing the “haka” to the world stage. Immediately before kick-off, the whole team will issue a warlike chant, stamping their feet, slapping their thighs, rolling their eyes, flicking their tongues, and making aggressive gestures in unison. This performance before each match, which is intended to heighten their morale and intimidate opponents, is a sight to behold. No other international sporting team possesses a pre-match ritual as powerful as the famed All Blacks haka. 
What does “haka” mean? Haka is often thought of as a broad term for Māori war dances traditionally used to intimidate the enemy and prepare the warriors for battle. Most people believe it was performed either on the battlefield prior to engaging the enemy, or as the warriors were leaving their own village en route to a battle. But in the language of Māori, the word haka simply means a dance. The dance is accompanied by a chant that expresses emotions or tells ancient stories. While many haka should be performed by males, there are some haka that can be performed by anyone, male or female. There are even some women-only haka.
Thanks to the All Blacks, two of the haka have become widely renowned: Ka Mate and Kapa o Pango. The former was composed by a Māori chief in the early 1800s about how he outsmarted his enemies. It was first performed by the All Blacks in 1906. The latter was written specifically for the team in 2005. They are now performed interchangeably by the All Blacks.
Today, different varieties of haka are performed on various ceremonial occasions—from receiving distinguished guests to birthdays, weddings, or the funerals of chiefs and people of high status. Though the practice had traditionally been limited to Māori communities, it has now spread far beyond that. Māori and New Zealanders of European heritage alike view doing the haka with a sense of pride, both on the rugby field and outside it. The haka has become the most recognizable symbol of New Zealanders as a people.
44.Which of the following best describes the tone of this article?
(A) Cynical.	(B) Humorous.	(C) Pessimistic.	(D) Respectful.
45. According to the passage, for what purpose do the All Blacks perform the haka?
(A) To anger their opponents.	(B) To gain public attention and fame.
(C) To boost their own spirits.	(D) To show respect to their ancestors.
46. Which of the following is closest in meaning to the word “practice” in the last paragraph?
(A) Sport.	(B) Performance.	(C) Competition.	(D) Occupation.
47. According to the passage, which of the following statements is true?
(A) The traditional Māori haka is limited to use by male Māori warriors in battle.
(B) The original meaning of haka in Māori is a war dance accompanied by songs.
(C) The All Blacks have taken turns performing Ka Mate and Kapa o Pango since 1906.
(D) Haka are now used for important events by both Māori and non-Māori New Zealanders.

In 2015, President Obama of the USA signed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), replacing the Bush-era No Child Left Behind (NCLB) that had been in effect since 2001. This new Act provides states with more decision-making power regarding curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Below are some big-picture ideas influencing many states as they approach the assessment task.
One important idea is flexibility. For years, states have used standardized K-12 assessments, similar to the SAT and ACT for college application, to measure student achievement. They are easy to use, but they fail to give a complete picture of how a student is progressing. Thus, states are rethinking one-size-fits-all standardized assessments and are instead considering personalized, student-centered assessments in schools. Obviously, the task is difficult and time-consuming. Fortunately, modern technology can help solve this dilemma. For instance, computer adaptive assessments can automatically adjust questions based on a student’s performances on the previous questions. This mechanism prevents the computer from giving questions that are obviously too easy or too difficult for the student. It thus allows teachers to quickly assess a student’s level of understanding and provide instant feedback to help in the learning process.
Another idea is multi-subject testing. Several states have started to incorporate subjects beyond the traditional math and reading items in their K-12 assessments. All 50 states include tests on science at least twice prior to senior high school, and some are now starting to include social studies, government, or economics. Some states are also moving toward assessing multiple subjects on one test, for example, reading and social studies. 
A third idea is the emphasis on students’ learning process. In pursuit of a student-centered approach, many states are putting more emphasis on assessments throughout the learning process rather than on traditional end-of-year summative tests. Teachers are encouraged to accumulate data at different points in their students’ learning process. These data together present a more complete picture of a student’s learning. 
The last idea regards the purpose of assessment. Assessment should be used to inform both teachers’ instruction and students’ learning. Teachers can modify their teaching based on students’ performance on tests; students can identify their own problems and make plans for improvement.
48. Which of the following is the best title for this passage?
(A) Computers and Assessments	
(B) The Four Components of ESSA
(C) Student-Centered Curriculum and Instruction
(D) From NCLB to ESSA, with a Focus on Assessment
49. What does the word “dilemma” in paragraph 2 refer to?
(A) The choice between SAT and ACT.
(B) The choice between NCLB and ESSA.
(C) Whether or not to use student-centered assessment.
(D) Whether or not to replace computer-based assessment.
50. Which of the following is an emerging new subject in the ESSA assessment?
(A) Math.	(B) Reading.	(C) Science.	(D) Economics.
51. If the following sentences were to be included in the passage, which paragraph should they go to?
One good example is that many teachers today are asking students to keep a learning portfolio, which is a purposeful collection of student works at different points of time in the semester. This portfolio exhibits students’ effort, progress, and achievements in one or more areas of the course.
(A) Paragraph 2.	(B) Paragraph 3.	(C) Paragraph 4.	(D) Paragraph 5.