1.	Due to a budget cut, our company’s annual year-end party, which is usually quite a treat, has to be held at a ______ cost.(A) hostile	(B) barren	(C) minimal	(D) systematic
2.	A plot to rob the bank was ______ to the police, and all the people involved in the plan were caught.(A) revealed	(B) cancelled	(C) declared	(D) explored
3.	One good way to ______ questions you don’t want to answer in a conversation is to change the topic.(A) whip	(B) split	(C) litter	(D) dodge
4.	To apply for a job, you need to have ______ such as skills, education, and experience required by the job.(A) regulations	(B) qualifications	(C) preventions  	(D) conventions
5.	For years, Lily has been ______ all incoming calls on both her mobile phone and home phone because she hates to be bothered by unknown callers.(A) glittering	(B) purifying	(C) mimicking	(D) filtering
6.	Many people felt extremely sad and angry over the ______ news of a stray dog found abused and killed in the park. (A) flexible	(B) sorrowful	(C) eventual	(D) optional
7.	Chris never shows up at meetings on time. His excuse for being ______ late is that he wants to avoid small talk at the beginning of the meetings.(A) consistently	(B) respectfully	(C) indifferently	(D) enormously
8.	Steve will quit his job next week. His ______ is completely unexpected, especially after his promotion and pay raise two months ago. (A) approval	(B) enforcement	(C) resignation	(D) signature
9.	People with an ______ illness should avoid going to public places to keep the diseases from spreading.(A) outrageous	(B) infectious	(C) ultimate	(D) explicit
10.	Although electronic devices are very popular nowadays, paper ______ are still most common in major elections around the world. (A) tokens	(B) fragments	(C) ballots	(D) warranties

We all know that too much stress is not good for our health, but too little is not ideal, either. While chronic stress can be dangerous to the body, short-term stress is actually healthy.
Short-term stress triggers the production of protective chemicals in our body and strengthens the body’s defenses. When our body is in a vulnerable situation, a burst of stress will quickly mobilize the body’s own repair system to defend the damaged areas. This shields us from physical discomfort and sickness. Small amounts of stress hormones may even sharpen our memory. A recent study found that when rats were forced to swim—an activity that places them under stress for a short while—they remembered their way through mazes far better than rats that were in a relaxed state.
The key to a healthy lifestyle is to keep our stress level balanced. Too much stress will make us cranky and sick. Too little stress, on the other hand, will lead to boredom and low motivation.
11.	(A) contagious	(B) chronic	(C) diagnostic	(D) tedious
12.	(A) Till	(B) Unless	(C) When	(D) Whereas
13.	(A) conceals	(B) derives	(C) shields	(D) transforms
14.	(A) harder	(B) better	(C) less	(D) further
15.	(A) balanced	(B) balancing	(C) balances	(D) to balance

Do you know the difference between the terms meteoroid, meteor, and meteorite in astronomy? Many people find these words confusing. However, the difference is all about their location.
Meteoroids are far up in the sky. They are chunks of rock or metal that speed through space. Some are very large and may be hundreds of feet wide. Others may be the size of a small stone. Most meteoroids travel around the sun in space and stay away from the Earth. However, sometimes a meteoroid will enter the Earth’s atmosphere. Friction with the atmosphere will cause it to heat up and burn while traveling at high speed. As a meteoroid begins to burn in the atmosphere, it leaves a streak of light. When this tail-like light is falling down toward the Earth, it is called a meteor, or a shooting star. Most meteors vaporize completely before they hit the ground. If any meteor survives its fiery journey through the atmosphere and lands on Earth, it is called a meteorite. Large meteorites can cause great explosions and much destruction on the surface of the Earth. For example, Barringer Crater in the American state of Arizona, measuring 1,200 m in diameter and some 170 m deep, was produced by a meteorite impact.
16.	(A) size	(B) weight	(C) location	(D) temperature 
17.	(A) may be	(B) would be	(C) must have been	(D) could have been
18.	(A) wear out	(B) turn off	(C) break through	(D) heat up
19.	(A) approaches	(B) survives	(C) confirms	(D) targets
20.	(A) Indeed	(B) Nevertheless	(C) For example	(D) In short

Some people say that Cantonese is a dialect of Chinese. Others insist that it is a language in its own right. Who is correct? How do dialects differ from languages?
Two kinds of criteria are used to distinguish languages from dialects. The first are social and political: In this view, “languages” are typically written, official, and prestigious, whereas “dialects” are mostly spoken, unofficial, and looked down upon. As a saying goes, “A language is a dialect with an army and a navy.” This implies that a powerful group of people like an army or a government can determine which dialect is chosen as the official language of a state.
Linguists have a different criterion: If two kinds of speech are so similar in grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation that their speakers can understand each other, they are regarded as dialects of a single language. On the other hand, if comprehension is difficult or even impossible, they are different languages. On this ground, Mexican Spanish and Argentine Spanish are dialects of the same language (Spanish). Speakers of these dialects normally have little trouble communicating with each other. Cantonese, on the other hand, is not considered a dialect of Chinese because speakers of the two languages can hardly converse with each other. This criterion of mutual understandability, though objective, can annoy nationalists. For example, Danes and Norwegians have no difficulty understanding each other, making Danish and Norwegian recognized as dialects of the same language. Yet, few Danes or Norwegians would actually feel happy about this classification.
(A) recognized	(B) determine	(C) sound	(D) trouble 	(E) comprehension	(F) ground
(G) right	(H) converse	(I) similar	(J) prestigious	(K) distinguish	(L) particular


Niki de Saint Phalle, one of the most famous artists of the 20th century, was a French-American born in 1930. She was brought up in a very conservative family, and yet, she rejected the staid, conservative values of her family to pursue a career in painting.   31   Fortunately, painting offered her an effective therapy and a way to develop as an artist. Her famous “Nana” series gained universal praise. It is a testimony to the glory of women.   32   Some of these sculptures are very big, “so that men would look small next to them.” Saint Phalle used vivid colors in these works and her female subjects dance cheerfully and merrily.   33   
Saint Phalle’s sculptural park, “The Tarot Garden,” inspired by Tarot cards, is situated in the Italian province of Tuscany.   34   The park contains sculptures of the symbols found on Tarot cards. The brightly colored combinations of buildings and sculptures reflect the metaphysical qualities represented by the 22 main tarot cards. The sculptures, however, have nothing to do with fortune telling.   35   
Saint Phalle passed away on May 21, 2002, in San Diego, California, at the age of 71. Her death meant the loss of a woman of diverse creative talents.
(A)	The series is mostly composed of life-size dolls of women in various roles such as brides and new mothers.
(B)	Work on the garden began in 1979, and it was officially opened to the public in May 1998.
(C)	Many modern women artists create sculptures that have become iconic pieces of feminist movement.
(D)	Through these joyful and powerful images of Nana, the artist sends a positive message to all women.
(E)	Her rebelliousness created a series of conflicts with her family, which led to a nervous breakdown at age 23.
(F)	Instead, the works focus on the elements of life experience, personality, and self-knowledge that the cards refer to.

Located in Black Canyon straddling the border between Nevada and Arizona in the southwestern region of the United States, Hoover Dam is named one of the Top 10 Construction Achievements of the 20th century. The dam, constructed between 1931 and 1936, was the largest of its kind at the time. Its construction was the result of a massive effort involving thousands of workers and cost over one hundred lives.
Since about 1900, the Black Canyon and nearby Boulder Canyon had been investigated for their potential to support a dam that would control floods, provide irrigation water, and produce hydroelectric power. In 1928, the US Congress authorized the project. The winning bid to build the dam was submitted by Six Companies, Inc. However, such a large concrete structure had never been built before, and some of the techniques were unproven. The extreme summer heat and lack of facilities near the site also presented tremendous difficulties. Nevertheless, Six Companies turned over the finished dam to the federal government on March 1, 1936, more than two years ahead of schedule.
The initial design of the dam, which was more concerned with the dam’s functionality than its exterior, was criticized by many as being too plain and unremarkable for a project of such immense scale. So Gordon B. Kaufmann, the architect who was brought in to redesign the exterior, greatly streamlined the design and applied an elegant Art Deco style to the entire project. Allen Tupper True, an American illustrator, was also hired to handle the design and decoration of the walls and floors of the new dam. He integrated into his design the images and colors based on Native American visions of rain, lightning, clouds, and animals, thereby creating symbolic patterns which appear both ancient and modern.
Today, Hoover Dam has become a national historic landmark. Standing at more than 725 feet above the Colorado River, the highest concrete dam in the Western Hemisphere continues to draw crowds 85 years after its creation, attracting more than a million visitors a year.
36.	Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a reason for building the dam in the beginning?
(A) To promote tourism.	(B) To support agriculture.
(C) To generate electricity.	(D) To prevent natural disasters.
37.	Which of the following statements is true about Hoover Dam?
(A) Its construction lasted for more than a decade.
(B) It is strong in functionality, but plain in design.
(C) Its site stretches over two states in the United States.
(D) It became famous because it led to the discovery of Black Canyon.
38.	According to the passage, what did Six Companies, Inc. experience in the process of building the dam?
(A) It was defeated by the harsh working conditions.
(B) It lost some workers in the construction of the dam.
(C) It benefited from prior experience of building dams of similar scale.
(D) It gave up the project authorized by the government before the deadline.
39.	What contribution did Gordon B. Kaufmann make to Hoover Dam?
(A) He improved the outer appearance of the dam.
(B) He enhanced the practical functions of the dam.
(C) He added aboriginal flavor to the design of the floor.
(D) He decorated the walls of the dam with images from nature.

France gave birth to restaurants, but it was no civilized affair. In fact, today’s restaurant business is a byproduct of the class warfare that arose during the French Revolution.
Back in the Middle Ages, fine dining was a privilege enjoyed exclusively by noble families who had their own grand kitchens and personal chefs. The only commercial diners for the masses were dusty, shabby roadside inns, where strangers crowded around mediocre buffets of lukewarm roasts and over-sauced beans. But sometime in the 1760s, the merchant class of Paris developed a taste for healthy clear broths which were considered restorative; hence the term “restaurant.” By the 1780s, this new Parisian “healthy food” craze led to a handful of reputable dining halls, where customers could sit at individual tables and choose from a wide range of dishes.
Ironically, the popularity of these restaurants grew at a time when the majority of the French population could not afford bread. Decades of harsh winters and oppressive taxation had taken their toll on kitchen tables. By 1789, the starving French masses could no longer be controlled. Looting and riots erupted throughout Paris, ushering in the French Revolution. Rich nobles fled to the countryside, leaving behind their highly skilled chefs and the fine wines from their cellars. Suddenly, unemployed cooks found their way to the city’s eateries, and within a year, nearly 50 elegant restaurants had popped up in Paris.
The restaurant business truly came into its own during the early 1800s, after General Napoleon seized control of the country. He granted “freedom of pleasure” to all citizens, as he reasoned that people who were focused on champagne and fine food probably would not conspire against him. The number of restaurants rose quickly. By 1814, about three thousand restaurants were listed in a popular travel guide. Paris became the center of the new restaurant scene, which, to some degree, it remains today.
40.	According to the passage, where does the word “restaurant” originate from?
(A) Famous chefs.	(B) Popular soups.	
(C) Dining halls.	(D) Daily menus.
41.	What does “taken their toll on kitchen tables” mean in the third paragraph?
(A) Deprived people of adequate food for living.	
(B) Controlled the nutrients in people’s diet.
(C) Charged people for using kitchen tables.	
(D) Paid tribute to chefs working in kitchens.
42.	Which of the following is true about commercial diners before the French Revolution?
(A)	Many fine restaurants were owned by highly skilled chefs.
(B) Reputable dining halls were popular in Paris during the 1760s.	
(C)	Public dining halls in the Middle Ages were run-down and dirty.
(D)	A limited variety of food was served in Parisian restaurants in the 1780s.
43.	What was the main reason for Napoleon to promote the development of restaurants?
(A)	He hoped to improve the life of his citizens.
(B)	He wanted to help unemployed chefs find new jobs.
(C)	He feared that reductions in restaurants might hurt the travel business.
(D)	He believed that the development of restaurants would bring political stability.

Falcons are powerful birds that may be trained to hunt in cooperation with humans. The art of training falcons as “hunting dogs of the skies” is called falconry. It was developed in the ancient Arabian Desert around 4000 B.C. In the past, falconry mainly involved hunting with falcons to supplement one’s diet. But now, it has become the favorite sport and pastime in the Arabian Peninsula.

Falconry includes three major processes: acquiring the falcons, training them, and hunting with them. Every year, falconers begin capturing wild falcons in June and July, the migration season. The best birds to catch are the ones with naturally nurtured hunting skills, aged one or two years. Once the falcons are captured, their heads are immediately covered with a leather hood. This is essential because they imprint as their master whomever they see first after the hood is removed. Right after a bird is caught, the training process starts. It begins by depriving the bird of food to make it easier to tame. The birds are taught to know their own name and respond to their master when called. Arab falconers live with their birds day and night in order to build a strong relationship with them.
By the end of October or mid-November, the trained falcons are ready to hunt in the desert. They have excellent vision, 2.6 times greater than that of a human. They are also the fastest divers on the planet. One hunting technique that sets them apart from other animals is that they can be trained to deliver their prey, without killing it first. This is vital in Islamic culture because animals used for food must still be alive to ensure that the meat is halal, that is, properly prepared according to Islamic law.
Falcons have played such a crucial role in traditional Islamic cultures that a number of countries in the Middle East have made them their national bird. Falconry has grown so popular that specialist hospitals have been established to take care of these magnificent birds. Falcons are even issued their own passports. They are the only animals in the United Arab Emirates that are legally allowed to travel inside planes, enjoying a level of luxury that some humans can only dream of.
44.	What makes falcons a unique animal for hunting in Islamic culture?
(A)	Falcons are relatively easy to train for hunting.
(B)	Falcons can form a strong bond with their owners quickly.
(C)	Falcons’ vision is particularly suitable for hunting in deserts.
(D) Falcons keep their prey alive before delivering it to falconers.
45.	What is the main reason for Arabic people to hunt with falcons today?
(A) To supplement their diet.	(B) To serve as entertainment and exercise.
(C) To worship their national bird.	(D) To replace the practice of hunting with dogs.
46.	According to the article, what privilege do falcons enjoy in the Arab world?
(A) Free air ticket.	(B) Passports issued by the King.
(C) Meals that are halal.	(D) Access to specialized medical care.
47.	Which of the following statements is true?
(A)	Falconers deprive the falcons of food in order to capture them.
(B)	Falcons are not allowed to see their masters during the training process.
(C)	The trainers’ names are imprinted on the hoods covering the birds’ heads.
(D) Wild falcons with natural hunting skills are most ideal for falconers to catch.

Since golf started in the 15th century, many advances have occurred in the game, including significant changes to the golf ball. Early golf was played with a rounded wooden ball before the Featherie, a leather sack stuffed with goose or chicken feathers, became the norm. Then, in 1848, the Gutta Percha ball was introduced, which was made from the juice of the leaves of the gutta tree (a tropical tree native to Malaysia) and was considerably more durable and affordable than its predecessor. The next advancement occurred in the early 1900s with the development of the Haskell. It was the first ball featuring a center rubber core and an outer cover. The Haskell traveled up to 20 yards farther than the Gutta Percha ball and was more durable. In 1905, William Taylor introduced the first dimpled ball, a ball covered with tiny holes on the surface. By the 1930s, golf balls with rows of dimples were accepted as the standard design. Most golf balls today consist of rubber thread wound around a rubber core and coated with dimpled enamel.

Dimples play an important role in a golf ball’s performance because these markings and patterns enhance the ball’s aerodynamics. When a ball is hit and moves through the air, it experiences two major aerodynamic forces: lift and drag. Drag slows the forward motion, and lift acts in a direction vertical to it. With dimples added to the ball, the force that pulls back on the ball is minimized, allowing it to travel faster and longer. Dimples also help to force the airflow downward, which pushes the ball upward. These are the same principles of aerodynamics that airplanes use to fly. In general, golf balls with small, shallow dimples tend to have a longer, lower flight path, whereas those with deeper dimples have a higher flight path. Golfers can choose their balls based on what they need for a particular shot or for particular weather.
48.	Which of the following best states the main idea of the first paragraph?
(A)	Science and technology have influenced the game of golf.
(B)	Price, durability, and function determine the quality of golf balls.
(C) Accumulated efforts have resulted in changes in how golf balls are made.
(D)	Golfers who have a sound knowledge of aerodynamics play the game well.
49.	Which of the following is true about golf balls?
(A)	William Taylor added a rubber center to golf balls.
(B)	The Gutta Percha ball was stuffed with bird feathers.
(C)	The Featherie was the first golf ball ever used in the game.
(D) The Haskell lasted longer and traveled farther than its predecessor.
50.	How do dimples on a golf ball affect its performance?
(A) They help it travel farther.	(B) They keep it in a better shape.
(C) They enhance its drag force.	(D) They allow it to endure stronger impact.
51.	Which ball will give golfers a better shot to get a ball out of a deep sand trap?
(A) A ball with deep dimples.	(B) A ball made from Gutta trees.
(C) A ball with a leather sack.	(D) A ball with a smooth outer cover.